<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 101


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology 


<title> Topic: Design of the "Star Wars" Anti-missile Defense System


<desc> Description:

Document will provide information on the proposed configuration, components, 
and technology of the U.S.'s "star wars" anti-missile defense system. 


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide information on the proposed configuration, components, 
and technology of the U.S.'s "star wars" anti-missile defense system. 


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information which aids description of the 
design and technology to be used in the anti-missile defense system advocated
by the Reagan administration, the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI), also 
known as "star wars."  Any reported changes to original design, or any 
research results which might lead to changes of constituent technologies, 
are also relevant documents.  However, reports on political debate over the 
SDI, or arms control negotiations which might encompass the SDI, are NOT 
relevant to the science and technology focus of this topic, unless they 
provide specific information on design and technology.   


<con> Concept(s):

1. Strategic Defense Initiative, SDI, star wars, peace shield

2. kinetic energy weapon, kinetic kill, directed energy weapon, laser, 
   particle beam, ERIS (exoatmospheric reentry-vehicle interceptor system), 
   phased-array radar, microwave

3. anti-satellite (ASAT) weapon, spaced-based technology, strategic defense 
   technologies


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</nat>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 102


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology 


<title> Topic: Laser Research Applicable to the U.S.'s Strategic Defense 
Initiative


<desc> Description:

Document will report on laser research related, or potentially related, to 
the U.S.'s Strategic Defense Initiative.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on laser research related, or potentially related, to 
the U.S.'s Strategic Defense Initiative.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information on laser research which is 
either explicitly linked to the U.S.'s Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI, 
also known as "star wars") or which has potential applicability to the 
development of SDI laser technology.  Potentially relevant research could be 
referred to as research into directed energy weapons, or high energy lasers, 
or, more generally, referred to as military laser research.  A relevant 
document could take many forms -- award of contract, report of research 
results, or abstract of a professional paper on lasers.  However, a document 
clearly focused on use of low-power lasers in consumer products, surgical 
instruments, or industrial cutting tools is NOT relevant.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Strategic Defense Initiative, SDI, star wars, peace shield

2. laser, directed energy weapon, high energy weapon


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</nat>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 103


<dom> Domain: Law and Government 


<title> Topic: Welfare Reform


<desc> Description:

Document will report those proposed or enacted changes to U.S. federal, 
state, or local welfare laws and regulations which are propounded as reforms.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report those proposed or enacted changes to U.S. federal, 
state, or local welfare laws and regulations which are propounded as reforms.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will reveal attempts by any U.S. jurisdiction to change 
the legal or regulatory context of existing welfare programs, or to add new 
programs, which are described or labeled as a reform.  For the purposes of 
this topic, a welfare program must revolve around a transfer payment for 
which the recipient had not previously made contributions, other than 
through general tax payments. Examples include General Assistance, Aid for 
Families with Dependent Children (AFDC), public housing, Medicaid, income 
subsidies (rent and fuel subsidies, earned income tax credit, food stamps, 
etc.), child care programs (day care subsidies, nutrition programs, Head 
Start, etc.), and vocational training programs.  NOT relevant are those 
programs which could be viewed as the payment of insurance benefits to those 
who had previously made contributions (either directly or indirectly through 
a family member or employer), such as Medicare, Social Security survivor's 
benefits, and unemployment insurance.  Also NOT relevant are those documents
which deal solely with the financing or administration of existing programs.


<con> Concept(s):

1. welfare recipient, public assistance, family assistance, welfare benefit, 
relief

2. welfare reform, welfare dependency, reform movement, workfare, homeless, 
welfare culture

3. General Assistance, Aid for Families with Dependent Children, AFDC, 
Medicaid, earned income tax credit, food stamps, Head Start, job training, 
public housing


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

Welfare program: although the above distinction between a "pure" transfer 
payment program and a putative insurance program is debatable, the 
distinction is made to focus the data search on those programs which are 
clearly in the welfare category, as opposed to the wide variety of social 
programs supported by U.S. government entities.

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 104


<dom> Domain: Law and Government 


<title> Topic: Catastrophic Health Insurance


<desc> Description:

Document will enumerate provisions of the U.S. Catastrophic Health Insurance 
Act of l988, or the political/legal fallout from that legislation.


<smry> Summary:

Document will enumerate provisions of the U.S. Catastrophic Health Insurance 
Act of l988, or the political/legal fallout from that legislation.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will detail the content of the U.S. medicare act of l988 
which extended catastrophic illness benefits to the elderly, with particular 
attention to the financing scheme which led to a firestorm of protest and a 
Congressional retreat, or a relevant document will detail the political/legal
consequences of the catastrophic health insurance imbroglio and subsequent 
efforts by Congress to provide similar coverages through a less-controversial
mechanism. 


<con> Concept(s):

1. Catastrophic Coverage Act of l988, Medicare Part B, Health Care Financing 
Administration

2. catastrophic-health program, catastrophic illness, catastrophic care, 
acute care, long-term nursing home care

3. American Association of Retired Persons, AARP, senior citizen, National 
Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 105


<dom> Domain: Finance 


<title> Topic: "Black Monday"


<desc> Description:

Document will state reasons why U.S. stock markets crashed on 19 October 1987
("Black Monday"), or report on attempts to guard against another such crash.


<smry> Summary:

Document will state reasons why U.S. stock markets crashed on 19 October 1987
("Black Monday"), or report on attempts to guard against another such crash.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will contain at least one reason why U.S. stock markets 
experienced a huge price drop on 19 October 1987, losses of equity so large 
that markets were said to have crashed (the Dow, for example, lost 508 points
on that one day alone); the date of the crash has become known as "Black 
Monday."  A preferable document would contain a detailed analysis of the 
crash. The best document would link analysis of events to actions taken or 
recommendations made by federal authorities or the stock markets to prevent 
future crashes.  NOT relevant are reports which simply reference, without 
analysis, "Black Monday," such as anniversary stories generated by the press 
around every October 19th.   


<con> Concept(s):

1. 19 October 1987, "Black Monday"

2. New York Stock Exchange, Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, 
National Association of Securities Dealers

3. Chicago Board of Trade, Chicago Mercantile Exchange, Commodity Futures 
Trading Commission, CFTC

4. program trading, index arbitrage, futures market, portfolio insurance, 
specialists, margins, super DOT system

5. Brady Commission, circuit breaker


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

<time> Time: any time after 19 October 1987 

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 106


<dom> Domain: Law and Government 


<title> Topic: U.S. Control of Insider Trading


<desc> Description:

Document will report proposed or enacted changes to U.S. laws and 
regulations designed to prevent insider trading.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report proposed or enacted changes to U.S. laws and 
regulations designed to prevent insider trading.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will contain information on proposed or enacted changes 
to U.S. laws and regulations, including state laws and stock market rules, 
which are aimed at increasing penalties or closing loopholes in existing 
institutional discouragements to insider trading.  NOT relevant are reports 
on specific insider trading cases, such as the prosecutions and settlements 
related to the Boesky - Milken - Drexel Burnham Lambert scandal, unless the 
report also contains specific information on legal or regulatory change. 


<con> Concept(s):

1. insider trading

2. securities law, bill, legislation, regulation, rule

3. Insider Trading Sanctions Act, Insider Trading and Securities Fraud 
Enforcement Act

4. Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, Commodity Futures Trading 
Commission, CFTC, National Association of Securities Dealers, NASD


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 107


<dom> Domain: International Economics 


<title> Topic: Japanese Regulation of Insider Trading


<desc> Description:

Document will inform on Japan's regulation of insider trading.


<smry> Summary:

Document will inform on Japan's regulation of insider trading.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide data on Japanese laws, regulations, and/or 
practices which help the foreigner understand how Japan controls, or does 
not control, stock market practices which could be labeled as insider trading.


<con> Concept(s):

1. insider trading

2. Japan

3. Ministry of Finance, Securities and Exchange Council, Osaka Securities 
Exchange, Tokyo Stock Exchange

4. Securities and Exchange Law, Article 58, law, legislation, guidelines, 
self-regulation

5. Nikko Securities, Yamaichi Securities, Nomura Securities, Daiwa 
Securities, Big Four brokerage firms


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: Japan

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 108


<dom> Domain: International Economics 


<title> Topic: Japanese Protectionist Measures


<desc> Description:

Document will report on Japanese policies or practices which help protect 
Japan's domestic market from foreign competition.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on Japanese policies or practices which help protect 
Japan's domestic market from foreign competition.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify a Japanese law or regulation, a 
governmental policy or administrative procedure, a corporate custom, or a 
business practice which discourages, or even prevents, entry into the 
Japanese market by foreign goods and services.  A document which reports 
generally on market penetration difficulties but which does not identify a 
specific Japanese barrier to trade is NOT relevant. 


<con> Concept(s):

1. Japan

2. Ministry of International Trade and Industry, MITI, Ministry of Foreign 
Affairs

3. protectionism, protect

4. tariff, subsidy, quota, dumping, obstruction, retaliation

5. structural impediment, product standard

6. trade dispute, barrier, tension, imbalance, practice

7. market access, free trade, liberalize, reciprocity

8. Super 301, 301 clause


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: Japan

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>







<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 109


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology


<title> Topic: Find Innovative Companies


<desc> Description:

Document must refer to one of the following: OTC Ltd., Hi Tech Enterprises,
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, Integrated Solutions Inc., MIPS Computer
Systems Inc., or Ask Computer Systems Inc.


<smry> Summary:

Document must refer to one of the following: OTC Ltd., Hi Tech Enterprises,
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, Integrated Solutions Inc., MIPS Computer
Systems Inc., or Ask Computer Systems Inc.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must mention one of the following companies: 
Overseas Telecommunications Commission (OTC) Ltd., Hi Tech Enterprises, 
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, Integrated Solutions, MIPS Computer 
Systems Inc., or Ask Computer Systems Inc.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Overseas Telecommunications Commission, OTC

2. Hi Tech Enterprises

3. Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Co.

4. Integrated Solutions Inc.

5. MIPS Computer Systems Inc.

6. ASK Computer Systems Inc.


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>



<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 110


<dom> Domain: International Politics


<title> Topic:	Black Resistance Against the South African Government


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss efforts by the black majority in South Africa to 
overthrow domination by the white minority government.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss efforts by the black majority in South Africa to 
overthrow domination by the white minority government.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss any effort by blacks to force political 
change in South Africa.  The reported black challenge to apartheid may take 
any form -- military, political, or economic -- but of greatest interest 
would be information on reported activities by armed personnel linked to 
the African National Congress (ANC), either in South Africa or in bordering 
states.  


<con> Concept(s):

1.  African National Congress, ANC, Nelson Mandela, Oliver Tambo

2.  Chief Buthelezi, Inkatha, Zulu

3.  terrorist, detainee, subversive, communist

4.  Limpopo River, Angola, Botswana, Mozambique, Zambia

5.  apartheid, black township, homelands, group areas act, emergency 
regulations


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  111


<dom> Domain:  International Relations 


<title> Topic:  Nuclear Proliferation


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss efforts by the United Nations or those nations currently
possessing nuclear weapons to control the proliferation of nuclear weapons
capabilities to the non-nuclear weapons states.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss efforts by the United Nations or those nations currently
possessing nuclear weapons to control the proliferation of nuclear weapons
capabilities to the non-nuclear weapons states.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on efforts by the UN's International Atomic
Energy Agency to monitor compliance with the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty,
or, report on efforts by the United States, Britain, France, USSR, India, or
China to control the transfer of technology, equipment, materials, or delivery
systems to nations suspected of nuclear weapons development programs, or, 
a relevant document will report any nuclear activities by Argentina, Brazil, 
Iraq, Israel, North Korea, Pakistan, or South Africa (all suspected 
proliferators). 


<con> Concept(s):

1.  International Atomic Energy Agency, IAEA, international safeguards, 
Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty

2.  nuclear, atomic bomb, reprocessing, spent fuel, plutonium, enriched 
uranium, heavy water

3.  Department of Engery, Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Nuclear Control
Institute

4.  United States, Britain, France, USSR, India, China

5.  Argentina, Brazil, Iraq, Israel, North Korea, Pakistan, South Africa


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  112


<dom> Domain:  Finance


<title> Topic:  Funding Biotechnology


<desc> Description:

Document will provide financial data relative to answering the question, how
much money worldwide is being invested in the biotechnology arena?


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide financial data about worldwide investment
in the biotechnology arena?


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide financial data which assists in quantifying
worldwide investment in biotechnology.  Relevant data includes the following:
funds provided to government, academic, or corporate laboratories for
biotechnology research; data on the capitalization of start-up firms in the
biotechnology arena, e.g. stock sales, venture capital investments, etc.; 
profit and loss figures for biotechnology enterprises or the biotechnology 
divisions of established corporations, etc.  


<con> Concept(s):

1. biotechnology

2. biotechnology investment


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 113


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology 


<title> Topic: New Space Satellite Applications


<desc> Description:

Document will report on non-traditional applications of space satellite
technology.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on non-traditional (innovative) applications of
space satellite technology.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss more recent or emerging applications of 
space satellite technology.  NOT relevant are such "traditional" or early 
satellite age usages as INTELSAT transmission of voice and data 
communications for telephone companies or program feeds for established 
television networks.  Also NOT relevant are such established uses of 
satellites as military communications, earth mineral resource mapping, and 
support of weather forecasting.  A few examples of newer applications are 
the building of private satellite networks for transfer of business data, 
facsimile transmission of newspapers to be printed in multiple locations, 
and direct broadcasting of TV signals.  The underlying purpose of this topic 
is to collect information on recent or emerging trends in the application of 
space satellite technology.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1. satellite, technology, use of space

2. satellite network, facsimile, direct broadcasting


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

INTELSAT: a 113-nation consortium with a near monopoly on international
satellite communications.

COMSAT:  the congressionally chartered U.S. satellite communications company
which holds 25% of INTELSAT's stock.

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 114


<dom> Domain: International Politics 


<title> Topic: Non-commercial Satellite Launches


<desc> Description:

Document will provide data on launches worldwide of non-commercial space
satellites.


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide data on actual launches worldwide of
non-commercial space satellites.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information which helps identify the 
purpose and capabilities of satellites launched anywhere in the world which 
might have non-commercial applications.  Accordingly, periodic launches of 
INTELSAT communications satellites are clearly NOT relevant.  On the other 
hand, data on launches of military communication or intelligence sensor 
satellites are definitely relevant.  Potentially useful data on any given 
launch would be press comment as to whether the satellite has a military, 
scientific, or intelligence purpose, type of launch vehicle employed, 
reported satellite configuration, launch trajectory and speed, projected 
orbit, etc.


<con> Concept(s):

1. satellite launch, military communications, intelligence satellite

2. launch vehicle, trajectory, orbit


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

INTELSAT:  a 113-nation consortium with a near monopoly on international
satellite communications.

COMSAT: the congressionally chartered U.S. satellite communications company
which holds 25% of INTELSAT's stock.

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 115


<dom> Domain: Law & Government 


<title> Topic: Impact of the 1986 Immigration Law


<desc> Description:

Document will report specific consequence(s) of the U.S.'s Immigration Reform
and Control Act of 1986.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report concrete example(s) of the impact of the U.S.'s
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide concrete example(s) of the impact of the 
U.S.'s Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (also known as the 
Simpson-Mazzoli Act).  Relevant examples are a foreign government's official 
complaints against the law, domestic legal and political attempts to delay 
enforcement or modify provisions of the act, imposition of fines on 
employers who hire illegal aliens, reports on undocumented workers taking 
advantage of the legalization program, enforcement actions by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, etc.  NOT relevant are such general reports as 
analyses of the law's potential impact, explication of the law's provisions, 
continuing political discourse on immigration issues, as well as immigration 
cases not related to the 1986 law. 


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Simpson-Mazzoli Act

2.  immigration, Immigration and Naturalization Service, INS, Border Patrol

3.  illegal alien (or immigrant), undocumented worker, deportation, amnesty,
extended voluntary departure, EVD


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 116


<dom> Domain: Medical & Biological


<title> Topic: Generic Drug Substitutions


<desc> Description:

Document will identify a generic drug which can be substituted for a brand 
name drug in the treatment of at least one medical condition.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify a generic drug which can be substituted for a brand 
name drug in the treatment of at least one medical condition.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document must have all four of the following pieces of information
relative to potential generic drug substitutions: the name of a generic drug,
the brand name (or chemical term) of the drug for which it is an equivalent, 
the manufacturer or distributor of the generic, and the medical condition(s) 
treated by both the generic and the brand name drug.  Reports which contain 
multiple generic equivalencies are clearly relevant, since the purpose of 
the search is to build a cross index of potentially cheaper generics.  General
reports on the economics, legal actions, or politics of generic competitions 
are NOT relevant, unless they contain the four elements of data specified.  


<con> Concept(s):

1.  generic drug, generic equivalent 


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 117


<dom> Domain: U.S. Economics 


<title> Topic: Capacity of the U.S. Cellular Telephone Network


<desc> Description:

Document will provide at least one datum which helps build a description,
quantification, and evaluation of the capacity of the U.S. cellular telephone
network.


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide at least one datum which helps build a description,
quantification, and evaluation of the capacity of the U.S. cellular telephone
network.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide data which helps answer the question, what 
is the capacity of the installed U.S. cellular telephone network?  Relevant
information can be cumulative over time, but it must be specific regarding 
such factors as area of operation for a given cellular company, number of 
units serviced by that company, type of equipment used, technology employed, 
and near-term plans for upgrades and expansions.  NOT relevant is such 
information as investments and capitalization, management changes, 
acquisitions and mergers (unless concrete data relative to capacity also is 
reported), equipment manufacture, paging services, etc.    


<con> Concept(s):

1.  cellular, cellular telephone (or phone)


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

<time> Time: past, present, and near future

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 118


<dom> Domain: International Politics 


<title> Topic: International Terrorists


<desc> Description:

Document will provide background information on international terrorist groups
or individuals, or detail the activities of such groups or individuals.


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide background information on international terrorist groups
or individuals, or detail the activities of such groups or individuals.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report such information as the history, objectives, 
structure, areas of operation, identities of members and supporters, or 
activities of international terrorist groups and individuals.  Information 
must be sufficient to place the document into the international terrorism 
category, as defined below, so as to distinguish the report from those which 
detail activities by rebel groups pejoratively labeled as "terrorist" by a 
regime under attack.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  terrorist, terrorism, international terrorist (or terrorism)


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

International Terrorism: as defined in Title 22 of the U.S. Code, Section
2656F(d), terrorism is premeditated, politically motivated violence 
perpetrated against noncombatant targets by subnational or clandestine 
agents, usually intended to influence an audience.  By extension, 
international terrorism transcends national boundaries and involves the 
citizens, property, or territory of more than one country.  

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 119


<dom> Domain: International Politics 


<title> Topic: Actions Against International Terrorists


<desc> Description:

Document will report activities by established political authorities against
international terrorists.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report activities by established government authorities against
international terrorists and their sponsors.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on military, political, economic, or legal 
actions taken against international terrorists, or states accused of 
sponsoring terrorism, by recognized governments worldwide.  The official 
action must be against groups or individuals (or their sponsors) who fit the 
international terrorist mold, as defined below, rather than be actions 
against opponents of a government who are labeled as "terrorist" for 
political or propaganda purposes.


<con> Concept(s):

1. terrorist, terrorism, international terrorist (or terrorism)


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

International Terrorism: as defined in Title 22 of the U.S. Code, Section
2656F(d), terrorism is premeditated, politically motivated violence 
perpetrated against noncombatant targets by subnational or clandestine 
agents, usually intended to influence an audience.  By extension, 
international terrorism transcends national boundaries and involves the 
citizens, property, or territory of more than one country.

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 120


<dom> Domain: International Econonomics 


<title> Topic: Economic Impact of International Terrorism


<desc> Description:

Document will report on actual or alleged private sector economic consequences
of international terrorism.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on actual or alleged private sector economic consequences
of international terrorism.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will address the issue of how to calculate the private
sector economic consequences of the activities of international terrorists.
Reported consequences may be such information as corporate claims that a 
fall off in business resulted from customer fears over international 
terrorism, actual destruction of private property through terrorist acts, 
investments not made because of concerns over a  terrorist presence in an 
area of potential investment, etc..   NOT relevant are costs attributable to 
government actions.    


<con> Concept(s):

1. terrorist, terrorism, international terrorist (or terrorism)  


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

International Terrorism: as defined in Title 22 of the U.S. Code, Section
2656F(d), terrorism is premeditated, politically motivated violence 
perpetrated against noncombatant targets by subnational or clandestine 
agents, usually intended to influence an audience.  By extension, 
international terrorism transcends national boundaries and involves the 
citizens, property, or territory of more than one country.

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 121


<dom> Domain: Medical & Biological 


<title> Topic: Death from Cancer


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss the life and death of a prominent U.S. person from a
specific form of cancer.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss the life and death of a prominent U.S. person from a
specific form of cancer.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide obituary information on a prominent U.S. 
person who died of an identified type of cancer.  In addition to the 
individual's name and cancer, the report must provide sufficient biographical
information for a determination of why the life and contributions of the 
individual were worthy of some comment upon death. In other words, a one or 
two line obituary is NOT sufficient.


<con> Concept(s):

1. cancer

2. death, obituary


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality:  U.S.

<time> Time: current


</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 122


<dom> Domain: Medical & Biological 


<title> Topic: RDT&E of New Cancer Fighting Drugs 


<desc> Description:

Document will report on the research, development, testing, and evaluation
(RDT&E) of a new anti-cancer drug developed anywhere in the world.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on the research, development, testing, and evaluation
(RDT&E) of a new anti-cancer drug developed anywhere in the world.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on any phase in the worldwide process of
bringing new cancer fighting drugs to market, from conceptualization to
government marketing approval.  The laboratory or company responsible for the
drug project, the specific type of cancer(s) which the drug is designed to
counter, and the chemical/medical properties of the drug must be identified.


<con> Concept(s):

1. cancer, leukemia

2. drug, chemotherapy


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 123


<dom> Domain: Medical & Biological 


<title> Topic: Research into & Control of Carcinogens


<desc> Description:

Document will report on studies into linkages between environmental factors or
chemicals which might cause cancer, and/or it will report on governmental
actions to identify, control, or limit exposure to those factors or chemicals
which have been shown to be carcinogenic.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on studies into linkages between environmental factors or
chemicals which might cause cancer, and/or it will report on governmental
actions to identify, control, or limit exposure to those factors or chemicals
which have been shown to be carcinogenic.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on research into linkages between cancer and
environmental hazards and/or the efforts of governments to limit exposure of
their people to carcinogens.  The governmental action may be of any category,
e.g. entry into international agreements, enactment of domestic laws, issuance
of administrative regulations, support of carcinogen research, air and soil
sampling, launching of public education campaigns, etc.  


<con> Concept(s):

1. cancer, carcinogen

2. treaty, agreement, law, regulation, study, research, education, Super Fund


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 124


<dom> Domain: Medical & Biological 


<title> Topic: Alternatives to Traditional Cancer Therapies


<desc> Description:

Document will report on innovative approaches to preventing or curing cancer.


<smry> Summary:

A relevant document will report on any attempt to experiment with or 
demonstrate the efficacy of any non-chemical, non-surgical, or 
non-radiological approach to preventing or curing cancer.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on any attempt to experiment with or 
demonstrate the efficacy of any non-chemical, non-surgical, or 
non-radiological approach to preventing or curing cancer.


<con> Concept(s):

1. cancer, cancer prevention, cancer cure

2. NOT chemotherapy, NOT surgery, NOT radiation


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 125


<dom> Domain: Law & Government 


<title> Topic: Anti-smoking Actions by Government


<desc> Description:

Document will describe actions by public authorities to limit the human use of
tobacco.


<smry> Summary:

Document will describe actions by public authorities to limit the human use of
tobacco.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide at least one example of actions proposed 
or taken by public authorities anywhere in the world to limit or discourage 
the human use of tobacco.  Limits may take any regulatory or legal form 
appropriate to that jurisdiction, to include sales controls, limits on 
advertisement, mandatory warning labels, and establishment of no-smoking 
zones.  Court findings against tobacco companies (if any), as well as 
publicly financed anti-smoking campaigns and education programs, are to be 
considered as relevant forms of discouragement.  In addition, public funding 
of medical research into tobacco use is relevant information.  However, 
private anti-smoking initiatives, such as creating no-smoking areas, are NOT 
relevant unless traceable in origin to government action.  Also NOT relevant 
are contradictory, pro-tobacco government actions, such as tobacco price 
support programs and export encouragements.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  tobacco

2.  smoking, anti-smoking


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 126


<dom> Domain: Medical & Biological 


<title> Topic: Medical Ethics and Modern Technology


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss ethical issues attendant to contemporary advances in 
medical technology.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss ethical issues attendant to contemporary advances in 
medical technology.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on non-traditional medical ethics issues 
which have been created by recent (post WWII) advances in medical science 
and/or the efforts of the medical community to deal with such ethical issues.
Relevant reports include those on such issues as the decision process for 
selecting organ transplant recipients, whether to place or remove a patient 
from a life-support machine ("when to pull the plug"), whether or not to 
employ advanced techniques on defective newborns, and the use of fetal 
tissue and human cells in biomedical research.  NOT relevant are reports on 
such traditional issues as abortion, mercy killing, and assisted suicide.  
Also NOT relevant are reports on the long-established legal/ethical issue of 
the right to privacy, as it relates to such contemporary public health 
problems as mandatory testing and contact tracing for AIDS.


<con> Concept(s):

1. medical ethics

2. hospital ethicist, medical ethics counseling

3. triage, terminally ill, abortion, assisted suicide

4. fetal tissue, organ transplant, life support machine, artificial 
insemination 


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 127


<dom> Domain: International Relations 


<title> Topic: U.S.-U.S.S.R. Arms Control Agreements


<desc> Description:

Document will report the terms of arms control agreements concluded, under 
negotiation, or proposed between the United States and the Soviet Union.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report the terms of arms control agreements concluded, under 
negotiation, or proposed between the United States and the Soviet Union.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document must provide specific information on U.S.-U.S.S.R. arms 
control agreements, such as the weapons covered, size of reduction, 
verification procedures, etc.  Debate in the U.S. Congress, or within Allied 
Nations or multilateral fora, is NOT relevant, unless such debates 
coincidentally provide new, concrete information on the terms of concluded, 
pending, or proposed arms control agreements. 


<con> Concept(s):

1. strategic arms limitation treaty, SALT, SALT II, START

2. intermediate range nuclear weapon, INF

3. medium-range nuclear missile, short-range nuclear weapon, nuclear testing,
 conventional arms

4. arms control, arms reduction, arms agreement, verification

5. Anti-ballistic Missile (ABM) Treaty of 1972

6. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

<nat> Nationality: U.S.S.R.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  128


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Privatization of State Assets 
 

<desc> Description:  

Document discusses a current or future sale to the private sector, by a 
government or government entity, of a business, businesses, or shares of a 
business owned by the state.


<smry> Summary:

Document discusses a current or future sale to the private sector, by a 
government or government entity, of a business, businesses, or shares of a 
business owned by the state.


<narr> Narrative:  

A relevant document will discuss a completed, ongoing, or  proposed sale to 
the private sector (e.g., offer to the public, or to a selected investor), 
by a government or government entity, of a business, businesses, or shares 
of a business owned by that government or government entity.  The business 
and the government or government entity must be identified.  A document 
which discusses privatization in general, privatization plans or a 
privatization program, but does not refer to a specific sale, is NOT relevant. 


<con> Concept(s):

1.  privatization effort, privatization plan, denationalization

2.  private sector

3.  sale, sell, offer

4.  stake, shares, stock, company


<fac> Factor(s):

<time> Time:  Current

<time> Time:  Future

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>

<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 129


<dom> Domain: International Politics 


<title> Topic: Soviet Spying on the U.S.


<desc> Description:

Document will report spying by the USSR within U.S. territory or against U.S. interests overseas.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report spying by the USSR within U.S. territory or against U.S. interests overseas.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss reported espionage by entities of the 
Soviet government - KGB, GRU, etc. - conducted within the territory of the 
United States of America, or against U.S. diplomatic or military facilities 
overseas.  Reported entrapment or involvement of U.S. citizens, residents, 
or employees in Soviet spying, be it overseas or within U.S. territory, is 
also relevant.  However, espionage cases involving states linked to the 
USSR - Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria, Cuba, etc. - are NOT relevant, unless 
linkage to Soviet intelligence can be demonstrated.


<con> Concept(s):

1. USSR, U.S.S.R., Soviet, KGB, GRU, diplomat

2. spy, agent, spying, espionage, intelligence

3. snoop, bug, compromise, penetrate

4. counterintelligence, FBI, CIA, Pentagon, State Department


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 130


<dom> Domain: International Relations 


<title> Topic: Jewish Emigration and U.S.-USSR Relations


<desc> Description:

Document will report on the issue of Jewish emigration from the Soviet Union 
as it impacts on U.S.-Soviet relations.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on the issue of Jewish emigration from the Soviet Union 
as it impacts on U.S.-Soviet relations.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on U.S. efforts to advance emigration 
freedom for Soviet Jews, USSR resistance to the permanent move of Jews to 
Israel or the U.S., and/or how the Jewish emigration issue affects 
U.S.-U.S.S.R. bilateral relations, as well as the relative positions of the 
two superpowers in the Middle East.


<con> Concept(s):

1. U.S., America, U.S.S.R., USSR, Soviet Union, Soviet, Israel, Middle East

2. Jew, Jewish

3. emigration, emigrate, emigre, refugee, exit visa

4. Jackson-Vanik Amendment

5. glasnost, refusenik

6. diplomatic relations, economic relations  


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 131


<dom> Domain: Military 


<title> Topic: McDonnell Douglas Contracts for Military Aircraft


<desc> Description:

Document will identify and quantify a contract awarded to McDonnell Douglas 
for production of military aircraft.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify and quantify a contract awarded to McDonnell Douglas 
or its subsidiary corporations
for production of military aircraft.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide specified data on contracts awarded to 
McDonnell Douglas for the production of military aircraft for any nation, 
any military service, or of any aircraft type (interceptor, fighter-bomber, 
helicopter, etc.).  The contract must be for completed airframes, NOT 
contracts for aircraft development, factory tooling, components, spare parts,
services, etc.  To be relevant, the document also must specify the number of 
aircraft to be delivered, the dollar size of the contract, and the aircraft 
type sought.


<con> Concept(s):

1. McDonnell Douglas

2. contract, award

3. military, aircraft, fighter, interceptor, helicopter, transport

4. FA-18, AV-8B, C-17, F-15, AH-64A, EF-18A


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 132


<dom> Domain: Military 


<title> Topic: "Stealth" Aircraft 


<desc> Description:

Document will provide cost, technical, and/or performance data on U.S. 
"stealth" aircraft projects.


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide cost, technical, and/or performance data on U.S. 
"stealth" aircraft projects.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will contain specific information on the design, 
assembly, and testing of "stealth" (radar-evading) fighters and bombers of 
the United States Air Force, and/or provide data indicative of the costs, 
characteristics, and performance of such aircraft.  Relevant information 
includes, but is not limited to, expenditures associated with stealth 
projects, technology reportedly used or to be used, locations associated 
with assembly or testing of the aircraft, information on performance 
(demonstrated or projected), and identification of contractors or 
subcontractors on stealth projects (excepting reports simply identifying the 
publicly known prime contractors for the stealth fighter and stealth bomber, 
Lockheed and Northrop, respectively).  Reports on flight tests or combat use 
of stealth aircraft are NOT relevant, unless technical or performance data 
are explicitly provided.


<con> Concept(s):

1. stealth, stealth fighter, stealth bomber, advanced technology bomber

2. radar evading, radar evasion

3. skunk works, black program, F-19


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 133


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology 


<title> Topic: Hubble Space Telescope


<desc> Description:

Document will describe some design feature of the Hubble Space Telescope.


<smry> Summary:

Document will describe some design feature or capability of the Hubble
Space Telescope.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information on the instruments, components, 
controls, capabilities, or other technical features of the Hubble Space 
Telescope.  Reports on delays in launching, or the actual launch of the 
Hubble, are NOT relevant.  In addition, only initial reports which 
technically detail the telescope's flawed mirror, how the defect will impact 
the telescope's effectiveness, or how the flaw will be corrected, are 
relevant.  Further references to the defective mirror, particularly 
political or non-scientific discussion of the mistake (or the project 
generally), are NOT relevant.  Also, references to the Hubble Constant, or 
the scientist for whom both the telescope and the astronomical term were 
named, are NOT relevant.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  Hubble Space Telescope, HST, space telescope


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 134


<dom> Domain: Medical & Biological 


<title> Topic: The Human Genome Project


<desc> Description:

Document will report on the objectives, processes, and organization of the 
human genome project.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on the objectives, processes, and organization of the 
human genome project.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on the purposes, strategies, technologies, 
funding, and/or management of the human genome project.  Although they may be
scientifically pertinent, reports on general biomedical, genetic, and cell 
chemistry research, as well as related technologies, are NOT relevant to 
this topic unless they are explicitly linked to the human genome project.


<con> Concept(s):

1. human genome, human genome initiative, human gene mapping

2. gene mapping, DNA sequencing

3. genetic marker, DNA segments


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

Human Genome Project: a largely U.S. funded "big science" project whose 
initial purpose is to map the nucleic acid sequences within the more than 
50,000 genes carried on the 23 human chromosomes.  Described differently, 
the project "is to produce a database listing the exact sequence of three 
billion base pairs along a single strand of human genetic material."

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 135


<dom> Domain: Medical & Biological 


<title> Topic: Possible Contributions of Gene Mapping to Medicine


<desc> Description:

Document will report on efforts to locate and describe genes linked to 
inherited human diseases and/or report on the potential medical 
contributions such information might yield.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on efforts to locate and describe genes linked to 
inherited human diseases and/or report on the potential medical 
contributions such information might yield.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on any of the following: gene mapping 
research aimed at locating specific genes involved in those human diseases 
where genetic cause or predisposition have been implicated, attempts to 
describe the molecular structure and chemical defects of suspect genes (in 
either single gene or polygenic diseases), the development of diagnostic 
tests at the gene level, and research into possible treatments which might 
result from locating and analyzing genes involved in inherited human diseases.
Reports on laboratory techniques or research projects which may aid the 
general fields of genetics and molecular biology, but which do not directly 
link the procedure or project to the study or treatment of a human genetic 
disease, are NOT relevant.


<con> Concept(s):

1. genetic disease, inherited disease, hereditary disease

2. gene mapping, DNA sequencing

3. gene therapy, gene test

4. chromosome analysis, DNA technology, genetic marker


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 136


<dom> Domain: U.S. Economics 


<title> Topic: Diversification by Pacific Telesis


<desc> Description:

Document will report on attempts by Pacific Telesis to diversify beyond its 
basic business of providing local telephone service.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on attempts by Pacific Telesis to diversify beyond its 
basic business of providing local telephone service.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will give information on moves by Pacific Telesis to 
expand and diversify into information services, cellular radio, and other 
businesses outside its regulated activity of providing local telephone 
service in California and Nevada.  NOT relevant to diversification moves by 
Pacific Telesis is such information as developments in local telephone 
service, financial issues (telephone rates, stock prices, and earnings 
reports), legal actions, labor conflicts, etc.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Pacific Telesis

2. diversification, diversify, new business, subsidiary, acquisition, 
non-telephone operations, consortium

3. NOT local telephone service; NOT upgrades to regional telephone system; 
NOT telephone rates, stock prices, or earnings; NOT legal or regulatory 
actions; NOT labor conflicts; NOT personnel actions.


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

Pacific Telesis: a San Francisco-based regional telephone operating company.
Pacific Telesis is one of the seven "baby bells" formed from the break-up of 
AT&T.  Along with Ameritech, Nynex, US West, Southwestern Bell Corp, Bell 
Atlantic Group, and Bell South Group, Pacific Telesis was given responsibility
for providing local telephone service in its assigned area, as well as 
afforded the opportunity of diversifying into a wide-range of other 
businesses, with some exceptions, such as the former Bell System's long 
distance service which was retained by AT&T.

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 137


<dom> Domain: U.S. Economics 


<title> Topic: Expansion in the U.S. Theme Park Industry


<desc> Description:

Document will report on the building of a new or on the expansion/upgrade of 
an existing theme park by a U.S. corporation in the United States or overseas.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on the building of a new or on the expansion/upgrade of 
an existing theme park by a U.S. corporation in the United States or overseas.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report on plans by U.S. corporations to build a new 
theme park, to enlarge an existing theme or amusement park, or to add a new 
attraction to an existing park.  Reports on developments in overseas theme 
parks in which U.S. interests have a substantial equity or management 
position are also relevant.  However, reports on mergers and acquisitions 
which do not add to plant or capacity in the theme park industry are NOT 
relevant.


<con> Concept(s):

1. theme park, amusement park, entertainment facility

2. build, construct, develop, enlarge, expand, upgrade

3. Disney, Busch, Universal, Six Flags, MCA, Sea World

4. NOT sale, purchase, merger, or acquisition


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 138


<dom> Domain: International Politics 


<title> Topic: Iranian Support for Lebanese Hostage-takers


<desc> Description:

Document will give data linking Iran to groups in Lebanon which seize and 
hold Western hostages.


<smry> Summary:

Document will give explicit information linking Iran to groups in
Lebanon which seize and hold Western hostages.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide explicit information which supports (or 
counters) the allegation that elements in the Iranian government encourage, 
influence, financially support, and/or direct the activities of such 
Lebanese groups as Hezbollah in the taking and holding of U.S. and European 
hostages.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Iran, Tehran, Iranian Interior Ministry, Revolutionary Guard Corps, 
patron, sponsor, mentor

2. Ayatollah Khomeini, Ali Akbar Mohtashemi (AKA Mohtashami-Pur), Abdollah 
Nouri, Hashemi Rafsanjani, Mohsen Rafiq-Dust, Hosein Sheikholislam

3. Lebanon, Syria, Bekaa Valley

4. Hezbollah, Party of God, Special Security Apparatus, Revolutionary 
Justice Organization, Organization for the Oppressed on Earth (AKA Oppressed 
of the Earth), Amal

5. Immad Mughniyeh (AKA Imad Mugniyah), Sheik Fadlallah, Sheik Obeid, Abed 
Yunis, Mustafa Khorshid, Hussein Ghabris, Hussein Khalil, Hussein Mousawi, 
Abbas Musawi, Hamadi

6. hostage, captive, hostage-taker, terrorist

7. kidnap, seize, hostage-taking

8. negotiate, bargain, talk, ransom, release, threat, kill


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>





<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 139


<dom> Domain: International Politics 


<title> Topic: Iran's Islamic Revolution - Domestic and Foreign Social 
Consequences


<desc> Description:

Document will report on the religious, legal, cultural, and social 
consequences of Iran's Islamic Revolution within Iran and abroad.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on the religious, legal, cultural, and social 
consequences of Iran's Islamic Revolution within Iran and abroad.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information which facilitates analysis of 
the non-political impact of Iran's Islamic Revolution on the people of Iran, 
as well as Muslims and others outside Iran.  Relevant data on the religious, 
legal, cultural, and social dimensions of the Islamic Revolution should help 
describe how Ayatollah Khomeini's overthrow of the Shah impacted, and 
continues to impact, the lives of people. NOT relevant are reports focused 
on the human and economic losses associated with the Iran-Iraq War.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Iran, Tehran, Qom, Ayatollah Khomeini

2. Islamic Revolution, Islamic Republic, Shiite, fundamentalism, Muslim, 
Moslem

3. women, chador, Islamic veil, headscarf

4. beard, village, hamlet

5. blasphemy, zealot, fanatic, repression, martyrdom, revolutionary guards

6. Salman Rushdie, Nazia Hassan, writer, artist, singer, television

7. NOT politics, NOT war, NOT elections, NOT international relations


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 140


<dom> Domain: International Politics 


<title> Topic: Political Impact of Islamic Fundamentalism


<desc> Description:

Document will report on the political impact of Islamic fundamentalism within any nation other than Iran.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on the political impact of Islamic fundamentalism within any nation other than Iran.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information on the increase outside Iran of 
Islamic fundamentalism, among both Sunni and Shiite adherents, and how the 
strengthening of the Islamic fundamentalist movement has, or potentially can,
effect the structures, politics, and policies of national governments.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Islamic fundamentalism, Islamization, shari'a (shariah)

2. Muslim Brotherhood, Hamas, Islamic Salvation Front, Al-Nahdah, Muslim 
Mujahedin, Jama'at-e Islami, Mujahedin-e Khalq, Hezbollah (AKA Hizbullah), 
al-Takfir Wal-Hijrah, Moro Liberation Front

3. Hassan el-Turabi (AKA Hassan Turabi), Gulbeddin Hekmatyar, Shah Massoud, 
Mohammed Zia-ul-Haq (President Zia), Ayatollah Khoi, Safar Hawali, Muhammad 
Husain Fadlullah (AKA Sheik Fadlallah), Abbas al-Madani

4. Afghanistan, Pakistan, Syria, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, 
Sudan, Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco, Philippines

5. NOT-Iran


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 141


<dom> Domain: International Economics 


<title> Topic: Japan's Handling of its Trade Surplus with the U.S.


<desc> Description:

Document will report on Japanese efforts to deal with U.S. complaints 
regarding Japan's surplus in bilateral trade.  


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on Japanese efforts to deal with U.S. complaints 
regarding Japan's surplus in bilateral trade.  


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will reveal Japanese government or government-inspired 
actions designed to reduce the gap or ameliorate frictions resulting from 
Japan's continuing surplus in bilateral trade with the U.S.  The report must 
identify concrete actions which are traceable to the Japanese government. 
NOT relevant would be promises or proposals.  Similarly, analyses of the 
U.S.-Japan trade relationship, trade negotiations, or political commentary 
thereon, are NOT relevant.  Also, such economic data as foreign exchange and 
interest rate movements, corporate initiatives, or stock and bond market 
changes are NOT relevant, unless such information is explicitly linked to 
Japanese government efforts to deal with the bilateral trade surplus.    


<con> Concept(s):

1. Japan, Japanese government, Ministry of International Trade and Industry, 
MITI

2. U.S., Department of Commerce, U.S. Trade Representative

3. trade surplus, deficit, gap, imbalance, dispute

4. free trade, managed trade, barriers to trade, structural impediments


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: Japan and U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 142


<dom> Domain: International Relations 


<title> Topic: Impact of Government Regulated Grain Farming on International 
Relations


<desc> Description:

Document will show how and why national governments supervise and protect 
their own growers of grain and/or how these policies impact a nation's 
foreign trade and diplomatic relations.


<smry> Summary:

Document will show how or why national governments supervise and protect 
their own growers of grain or how these policies impact a nation's 
foreign trade and diplomatic relations.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will demonstrate specifically how a government anywhere 
in the world protects domestic production of grains (such as corn, rice, and 
wheat), provide the rationale for such policies (if available), and/or 
demonstrate the linkage between such domestic agricultural policies and a 
nation`s foreign trade and diplomatic relations.


<con> Concept(s):

1. export subsidies, export restitution, import quotas, farm-trade barriers

2. price supports, farm subsidies, agricultural supports

3. self-sufficiency, embargo, import dependence, high quality food supply, 
farm interests

4. grain, animal feed, corn, rice, wheat

5. foreign trade, trade negotiations, agricultural policy

6. EC's Common Agricultural Policy, Japan's Ministry of Agriculture, 
Forestry, and Fisheries, Zenchu, Liberal Democratic Party, LDP, U.S.'s 
Export Enchancement Program, food importing countries


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 143


<dom> Domain: U.S. Politics 


<title> Topic: Why Protect U.S. Farmers?


<desc> Description:

Document will contribute to an analysis of how and why, and at what cost, 
the U.S. federal government protects, supports, and controls U.S. farming.


<smry> Summary:

Document will contribute to an analysis of how or at what cost, 
the U.S. federal government protects, supports, and controls U.S. farming.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will describe actions taken by the U.S. government to 
protect U.S. farmers; or, reveal how farm price supports, export subsidies, 
import quotas, and other special farm policies impact the rural economy, as 
well as consumer costs and the federal budget; or, indicate a rationale used 
to justify farm support policies; or, show the relationship between 
agricultural policies and Congressional politics; or, suggest how national 
farm policies distort the "free" functioning of the agricultural sector of 
the national economy.


<con> Concept(s):

1. farm policy, farm exports, price supports, farm subsidy, deficiency 
payment, set-aside, supply controls, payment-in-kind, PIK, program crops, 
export subsidies, import quotas, crop base, production controls

2. Export Enhancement Program, EEP, Agriculture Adjustment Act, Targeted 
Export Assistance, TEA

3. rural districts, farm state, farming, farmers, agricultural sector

4. U.S. Department of Agriculture, Agriculture Department, USDA, U.S. Congress


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 144


<dom> Domain: International Politics


<title> Topic: Management Problems at the United Nations


<desc> Description:

Document will report on alleged corruption, incompetence, or inefficiency in 
the management of the United Nation's staff, activities, or specialized 
agencies.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on alleged corruption, incompetence, or inefficiency in 
the management of the United Nation's staff, activities, or specialized 
agencies.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information on management effectiveness by 
the United Nations, its specialized agencies, or in its running of such 
activities as peace keeping and relief operations.  Allegations of management
failings, as well as retorts to such charges, are relevant.  However, 
charges of ideological bias or disputes over political and policy issues are 
NOT relevant.  The focus is management effectiveness, or the lack thereof.


<con> Concept(s):

1. United Nations, UN, Secretary General, United Nations Educational, 
Scientific, and Cultural Organization, UNESCO, Food and Agricultural 
Organization, FAO, World Health Organization, WHO, United Nations High 
Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR, peace keeping

2. mismanagement, corruption, incompetence, inefficiency, ineffectiveness, 
overhead, extravagance, administrative costs

3. secretariat, international civil servants, bureaucracy

4. reform, budget controls, accounting, financial analysis, retrenchment


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 145


<dom> Domain: U.S. Politics 


<title> Topic: Influence of the "Pro-Israel Lobby"


<desc> Description:

Document will describe how, and how effectively, the so-called "pro-Israel 
lobby" operates in the United States.


<smry> Summary:

Document will describe attempts by the so-called "pro-Israel 
lobby" to influence United States policy.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify and/or discuss the effectiveness of an 
organization, individual, or mechanism employed by the so-called "pro-Israel 
lobby" to advance the interests of the State of Israel within the United 
States and its government.  Particularly useful would be a document which 
shows the lobby's impact on a specific policy decision by the U.S. government.


<con> Concept(s):

1. zionism, American Jews, Jewish community, U.S. Jewish leaders

2. aid to Israel, military assistance, campaign contribution

3. U.S. arms sales to Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, or Kuwait

4. U.S. supporters of Israel, pro-Israel congressman or senator, pro-Israel 
lobbyist, Jewish lobby 

5. American Jewish Congress, United Jewish Appeal, UJA, American Israel 
Public Affairs Committee, AIPAC, New Israel Fund, Committee for Economic 
Growth of Israel, Jewish Institute for National Security Affairs

6. Mossad, CIA, Israeli intelligence

7. dual loyalty, Jonathan Pollard, Pollard spy case, Rafael Eitan, Aviem 
Sella 


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S. and Israel

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 146


<dom> Domain: International Relations 


<title> Topic: Negotiating an End to the Nicaraguan Civil War


<desc> Description:

Document will report on the negotiating process leading to an end to the 
Nicaraguan civil war.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on the negotiating process leading to an end to the 
Nicaraguan civil war.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information on proposals for peace, 
negotiations on such proposals, terms of any agreements reached, problems in 
implementing agreements, or successful implementation of any agreement 
designed to facilitate an end to the civil war in Nicaragua.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Nicaragua, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala 

2. United States, Cuba, USSR, Soviet Union, Central America

3. Sandinista, Contra, Managua

4. peace talks, truce, cease-fire, elections, disarmament, nonlethal aid, 
turbista, La Prensa

5. Arias Plan, President Oscar Arias Sanchez, Oscar Arias

6. Daniel Ortega, Adolfo Calero, Aristides Sanchez, Violeta Chamorro, 
Cardinal Miguel Obando y Bravo, Cardinal Obando

7. Fidel Castro, Jose Napolean Duarte, Alfredo Cristiani, Vinicio Cerezo, 
Jose Azcona


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 147


<dom> Domain: U.S. Economics 


<title> Topic: Productivity Trends in the U.S. Economy


<desc> Description:

Document will provide productivity statistics on the U.S. economy.


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide productivity statistics on the U.S. economy.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will contain some macroeconomic datum useful in charting 
long-term productivity trends in the U.S. economy.  Because useful in 
checking and calibrating aggregate figures, productivity statistics for 
specific sectors of the U.S. economy could be useful.  However, statistics 
for individual enterprises, because not available in sufficient numbers, are 
NOT relevant.  Also NOT relevant, unless containing confirmable productivity 
statistics, are reports on political discussions or press commentaries on 
the state of the U.S. economy.


<con> Concept(s):

1. productivity plus United States

2. productivity plus trend, data, statistics, ratios, reports

3. productivity plus gains, growth, improvement, drop, decline, change

4. gross national product, GNP, growth rate, standard of living

5. recession, slump  


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 148


<dom> Domain: Military 


<title> Topic: Conflict in the Horn of Africa


<desc> Description:

Document will report on the Ethiopia-Somalia War, civil wars within those 
nations, and/or the movement of refugees fleeing armed conflicts between or 
within Ethiopia and Somalia.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on military and diplomatic development in the
Ethiopia-Somalia War or on the civil wars in Ethiopia or Somialia.
All refugee movements caused by these wars are also of interest.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information on the course of the 
Ethiopia-Somalia War (military and diplomatic developments), rebellions 
within Ethiopia, attempts to overthrow the Siad Barre regime in Somalia, 
and/or population movements within Ethiopia and Somalia, as well as refugee 
movements in and out of the neighboring states of Djibouti, Kenya, and Sudan.


<con> Concept(s):

1. war, conflict

2. civil war, insurgency, coup, famine, guerrilla, refugee

3. Horn of Africa, Ethiopia, Somalia

4. Eritrea, Tigre (Tigray), Wollo (Wello), Addis Ababa

5. Kenya, Sudan, Djibouti

6. Eritrean People's Liberation Front, EPLF, Oromo Liberation Front

7. Mengistu, Siad Barre


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 149


<dom> Domain: Law and Government 


<title> Topic: Industrial Espionage


<desc> Description:

Document will report on industrial espionage.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on specific instances of industrial espionage,
including insider trading, or the actions of governments to prevent
the theft of economic secrets through legislation, regulation, or law
enforcement.

<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will provide information on alleged or demonstrated acts 
of industrial espionage committed by agencies of any nation, by any 
corporation seeking information on a competitor through apparently illegal 
acts, or by private individuals seeking to collect and sell propietary 
information. The espionage may be through any means -- electronic 
surveillance, bribery of employees, theft of documents, etc. -- whose 
purpose is to obtain technological or corporate secrets.  Also relevant are 
the actions of governments to prevent the theft of economic secrets through 
legislation, regulation, or law enforcement.  NOT relevant are such legally 
permissable actions as market research, hiring of consultants, and analysis 
of publicly available documents.  



<con> Concept(s):

1. industrial espionage, electronic surveillance, eavesdropping, electronic 
theft, inside information, market intelligence, industrial intelligence 
gathering, economic secrets, economic intelligence

2. industrial spy, disgruntled employee, electronic thief 


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 150


<dom> Domain: U.S. Politics 


<title> Topic: U.S. Political Campaign Financing


<desc> Description:

Document will report how U.S. politicians finance their election campaigns 
and/or moves to "reform" campaign finance practices.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report how U.S. politicians finance their election
campaigns (including honorariums) and/or moves to "reform" campaign
finance practices.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will show how U.S. politicians (federal, state, or 
local --  individually or as a group) pay for their election campaigns, the 
role played by "special interests" and contributors in the electoral process,
allegations or evidence of campaign contributions buying political favors, 
and/or proposals to limit the cost of campaigns or "reform" electoral 
finance practices.


<con> Concept(s):

1. campaign finance, campaign contribution, fund raising, political 
donation, honorarium, mother's milk of politics

2. campaign finance reform, public financing, ethics law

3. special interest, rich contributor, fat cat, lobbyist, political action 
committee, PAC

4. access-buying, political favor, electoral corruption


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality: U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>






