<top>
<num> Number: 751

<title> Scrabble Players

<desc> Description:
Give information on Scrabble players, when and where Scrabble is
played, and how popular it has been.

<narr> Narrative:
Give information on the social aspects of the game Scrabble. Scrabble
players may be named or described as a group.  Both real and fictional
players are relevant. Mention of a scheduled Scrabble game is
relevant. Scrabble's popularity is relevant.  An account of a
particular game is relevant.  Descriptions of variants on the Scrabble
game are not relevant. Use of Scrabble tiles for other purposes are
not relevant. Scrabble software is not relevant unless there is
mention of its users.  Titles of Scrabble-related books (dictionaries,
glossaries, rulebooks) are not relevant.


</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 752

<title> Dam removal

<desc> Description:
Where have dams been removed and what has been the environmental
impact?

<narr> Narrative:
Discussions of dam removal in general are relevant. Identification of
specific places where dams have been removed is relevant, as is
discussion of the environmental impact of removal. Applications for
removal are not relevant unless reasons are given.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 753

<title> bullying prevention programs

<desc> Description:
What programs have been used in schools to prevent bullying of
students?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents must have details about actual programs developed
for and implemented in a school or schools with the goal of preventing
bullying.  This would include details such as classes, assemblies,
discipline, mediation or projects for students and staff.  Advice on
how to develop such a program is not relevant.  Listings or titles of
programs without details as to how they are implemented are not
relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 754

<title> domestic adoption laws

<desc> Description:
Provide any legal information about domestic human adoption.

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents must describe any laws covering adoption of minor
children within the United States, to include laws of any specific
states. Description of a law without specific name or identification
of that law is acceptable.  Reference to a law and its impact are
acceptable. A reference to a law without any textual description of
that law is not acceptable .(e.g. "Joe Bloggs was responsible for
passage of adoption law Nr#####.") Documents containing only
tax-related legalities, such as tax allowances, are not acceptable.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 755

<title> Scottish Highland Games

<desc> Description:
What is the history and location of Scottish highland games in the
United States.

<narr> Narrative:
Description of Scottish and Highland Games performed in the United
States, their history and their geographic location are relevant. Mere
mention of the games, time and place without description is considered
not relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 756

<title> Volcanic Activity

<desc> Description:
Locations of volcanic activity which occurred within the present day
boundaries of the U.S. and its territories.

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant information would include when volcanic activity took place,
even millions of years ago, or, on the contrary, if it is a possible
future event.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 757

<title> Murals

<desc> Description:
Show examples of murals.

<narr> Narrative:
A picture of a mural must be present. Murals from any time period,
works in progress, and portions of murals are relevant.  Rothko's
mural paintings are relevant. Friezes (bands of wall decoration) are
relevant.

</top>
 
<top>
<num> Number: 758

<title> Embryonic stem cells

<desc> Description:
What are embryonic stem cells, and what restrictions are placed on
their use in research?

<narr> Narrative:
Explanation of the nature of embryonic stem cells is relevant. Their
usefulness in research is relevant. Sources for them and restrictions
on them also are relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 759

<title> civil war battle reenactments

<desc> Description:
When and where are Civil War battle reenactments held?

<narr> Narrative:
Reenactments of actual Civil War battles which are scheduled to be or
have previously been performed are relevant.  Regularly scheduled, or
annual events are relevant.  General reenactments of a soldier's life,
dress, encampments, and demonstrations not connected to a specific
battle are not relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 760

<title> american muslim mosques schools

<desc> Description:
Statistics regarding American Muslims, mosques, and schools.

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents should provide some count or proportion of mosques,
Muslim-affiliated schools, or population. With regard to population,
specific age groupings, sexes, or other categorizations are
acceptable. The statistics can be pertinent to a specific geographic
area, such as Fulton County, the state of California, or the
Northeast.  There is no restriction as to time period (for example
2005 versus 1987).

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 761

<title> Problems of Hmong Immigrants

<desc> Description:
Describe the problems faced by Hmong immigrants to the United States

<narr> Narrative:
Problems faced by Hmong immigrants and programs or legislation to
assist with these problems are relevant. Legislation to grant
citizenship to Hmong with an inadequate knowledge of English is judged
relevant. Listings of materials and services available in the Hmong
language are not relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 762

<title> History of Physicians in America

<desc> Description:
Who have been considered "doctors" since the first European settlement
in America?

<narr> Narrative:
The history of physicians in America is relevant.  Native American
practitioners would not be relevant.  Women who knew herbs and
practiced midwifery would be relevant. Mention of "doctor" would be
relevant if he/she is considered to be a doctor by other people.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 763

<title> Hunting deaths

<desc> Description:
Give information on human deaths associated with hunting for game.

<narr> Narrative:
Accidental deaths, murders, and suicides are relevant. Deaths can be
from any cause. Fatalities of people not in the hunting party are
relevant, but the deaths must be connected with hunting. Relevant
hunting must be for live prey.  Deaths related to submarine hunting
are not relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 764

<title> Increase mass transit use

<desc> Description:
What is being done to increase mass transit use?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents should describe measures taken in municipalities to
increase mass transit use.  Actions taken by city officials or transit
managers to increase rider ship of mass transit are relevant. Factors
preventing use of mass transit are relevant. General statements of the
value of mass transit are not relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 765

<title> ephedra ma huang deaths

<desc> Description:
How many deaths have been attributed to the drug ephedra, also known
as the herbal ingredient ma huang?

<narr> Narrative:
Information of specific individuals' deaths or numbers of deaths
actually attributed to the use of ephedra or ma huang is relevant.
Mixed statistics which conflate injuries and deaths are not relevant.
General statements referring to death as a side effect of the drug's
use are not relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 766

<title> diamond smuggling

<desc> Description:
Illicit activity involving diamonds, to include diamond smuggling.

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents should include information about any illicit
diamond activity. Smuggling of diamonds may be stated literally but
other activities where illegal export (smuggling) is implied are
acceptable. Such terms as "conflict diamonds" and "blood diamonds" are
pertinent. The diamond terminology without text (such as a
bibliography or document-less table of contents) is not
acceptable. Any geographic area or relatively current (post 1950)
timeframe is relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 767

<title> Pharmacist License requirements

<desc> Description:
What are the requirements for a pharmacist's license in the U.S.?


<narr> Narrative:
Laws governing time issuance or renewal of a pharmacist's license in
the various states are relevant. Requirements to qualify for a license
and to perform under the license are relevant. Listings of pharmacies,
pharmacists or agencies regulating or concerned with pharmacy are not
relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 768

<title> Women in state legislatures

<desc> Description:
What is the number of women legislators or what percentage of the
total legislators in any given state are women?

<narr> Narrative:
A relevant document gives the exact number or the percentage of the
total number of legislators that are women in any given state of the
50 states or gives a total for the entire United States. A document
talking about only one woman legislator is not relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 769

<title> Kroll Associates Employees

<desc> Description:
Identify employees of Kroll Associates.

<narr> Narrative:
Employees must be named. Past and present Kroll employees are
relevant. Kroll Associates is an international investigative and
security firm whose regional branches are known as Kroll Associates
Inc. or Kroll Associates Ltd. CK Kroll & Associates is an unrelated
company and not relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 770

<title> Kyrgyzstan-United States relations

<desc> Description:
What is the state of Kyrgyzstan-United States relations?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents should discuss interactions between Kyrgyzstan and
the United States. Teaching guides for U.S. schools and other
documents on Kyrgyzstan are not relevant unless they include
information on relations between the two nations.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 771

<title> deformed leopard frogs

<desc> Description:
What deformities have been found in leopard frogs?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents must contain information pertaining to deformities
specifically in leopard frogs.  Details such as where these deformed
frogs have been found and the types and/or causes of their deformities
are relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 772

<title> flag display rules

<desc> Description:
What are the rules or guidelines for display of the United States
flag?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents must provide any regulations or guidelines for
display of the U.S. flag. Not acceptable are bibliographies, tables of
contents, or links to websites containing such information. Documents
limited to flag abuse or desecration are not acceptable.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 773

<title> Pennsylvania slot machine gambling

<desc> Description:
What is the legal status of slot machine gambling in Pennsylvania?

<narr> Narrative:
Legislation dealing with slot machine gambling in Pennsylvania is
relevant as are count reports of cases prosecuted under existing
law. Proposals to change existing laws in Pennsylvania relating to
slot machine gambling outside of Pennsylvania are not relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 774

<title> Causes of Homelessness

<desc> Description:
What are some of the causes of homelessness?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant causes do not have to be the actions of the homeless person/s
themselves. Causes can come from outside the homeless person/s, such
as being a veteran, or lack of available, lost-cost housing. Relevant
causes can also be the actions of the homeless person/s such as
alcoholism or drug addictions.  Other relevant reasons are a persons
desire to be "free" or mental illness.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 775

<title> Commercial candy makers

<desc> Description:
Identify commercial candy makers and give information concerning them.

<narr> Narrative:
A candy manufacturer or brand must be named. Information on the
company and its products, methods, markets, history, problems,
successes, and popularity are relevant. Lawsuits and regulatory
actions are relevant if a candy company or brand is named in the
discussion.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 776

<title> Magnet schools success

<desc> Description:
Are magnet schools considered successful in districts where they have
been created?

<narr> Narrative:
Documents which describe the way magnet schools operate in general or
in specific locations are relevant if they relate whether or not they
are thought to be successful. Success can be judged in terms of
reduced racial segregation or improved academic achievement or
both. Documents which only state plans or aims are not relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 777

<title> hybrid alternative fuel cars

<desc> Description:
What hybrid or alternative fuel passenger cars are auto manufacturers
now marketing or developing for future sales?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents must contain some detail as to the manufacturer and
model or type of car.  Lists of manufactures and car models are
relevant. SUV's and mini vans for private, not commercial, use are
relevant.  Commercial vehicles, such as buses or trucks are not
relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 778

<title> golden ratio

<desc> Description:
Golden ratio formula, description, or examples.

<narr> Narrative:
Documents must contain the Golden Ratio formula or a description of
its development. References to works of art, design, or architecture
are acceptable. Examples of the Golden Ratio appearing in nature are
acceptable.  Other terms, such as "Golden Mean" or "Golden
Proportion", are acceptable and can be substituted for Golden
Ratio. References to Fibonacci without specifying the Golden Ratio or
its formula are not acceptable. Documents limited to web links,
bibliographies, or tables of contents (without accompanying documents)
are not acceptable.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 779

<title> Javelinas range and description

<desc> Description:
Describe the Javelina or collared peccary and its geographic range.


<narr> Narrative:
Physical description, habits, habitat, and range are all
relevant. Photographs identified as "javelina" or "peccary" are
relevant.  Biographical listings or listings of 200 exhibits including
the species' name are not considered relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 780

<title> Arable land

<desc> Description:
How much of planet Earth is arable at present?  Area must have plenty
of water, sun and soil to support plant life.

<narr> Narrative:
The mention of the percentage of land in any given state or country
that will support plant life is relevant. The land does not have to be
presently used for crops to be relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 781

<title> Squirrel control and protections

<desc> Description:
Give information on steps to manage, control, or protect squirrels.

<narr> Narrative:
Real or abstract measures are relevant. Petitions and decisions
concerning squirrels are relevant. Dangers to squirrels and threats to
their survival are relevant. Mentions of squirrel hunting are
relevant. Measures to protect from damage by squirrels are
relevant. Simple descriptions of squirrels are not relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 782

<title> Orange varieties seasons

<desc> Description:
What are the varieties of oranges and when is each in season?

<narr> Narrative:
Descriptions of orange varieties and the seasons in which they ripen
are relevant. Lists are relevant if they name varieties of
oranges. General information about oranges is not relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 783

<title> school mercury poisoning

<desc> Description:
How have mercury poisonings of children occurred in schools and what
measures are being taken to prevent such incidents?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents must have information on the ways mercury
poisonings have actually occurred in schools and/or concrete measures
that have been taken to prevent or reduce mercury exposure in
schools. Relevant preventative measures would include specific
regulations or policies enacted or the establishment of mercury-free
zones. General information of how a poisoning might occur or advice on
precautions in handling mercury is not relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 784

<title> mersenne primes

<desc> Description:
Give a definition or description of Mersenne prime numbers.

<narr> Narrative:
The document should have the formula for Mersenne primes. However, the
exact formula may be omitted if there is a narrative description
sufficiently clear for the reader to render it into the desired
equation. A discussion of Mersenne numbers without reference to
Mersenne primes is not acceptable! If the equation appears to be
incorrect it will be acceptable anyway.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 785

<title> Ivory-billed woodpecker

<desc> Description:
What is the history and present status of the Ivory-billed Woodpecker?

<narr> Narrative:
References to places where the Ivory-billed woodpecker was previously
reported are relevant whether or not its present status has been
determined.  Statements that its status is "extirpated" or "extinct"
are relevant descriptions of programs to locate, preserve, encourage
or reintroduce this species are relevant. Reports of sightings and
last sightings are relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 786

<title> Yew trees

<desc> Description:
Where do yew trees grow anywhere on the globe?

<narr> Narrative:
To be relevant the document must mention a place where the yew tree
grows. The name of a forest or park or river is sufficient. The
country's name does not have to be listed for it to be relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 787

<title> Sunflower Cultivation

<desc> Description:
Give information on the cultivation of sunflowers.

<narr> Narrative:
Problems in growing sunflowers and tips for success are
relevant. Descriptions of how sunflowers grow are
relevant. Identifications of places where sunflowers are cultivated
are relevant.  Information on the Ox-eye Sunflower and plants in the
sunflower family are relevant.


</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 788

<title> Reverse mortgages

<desc> Description:
What are reverse mortgages and how do they work?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents will define reverse mortgages, describe
requirements for qualifying, and explain how homeowners make use of
them. Discussions on their advantages and disadvantages are
relevant. Listings of links are relevant if they give information
about reverse mortgages other than the name.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 789

<title> abandoned mine reclamation

<desc> Description:
Find information on abandoned mine reclamation projects.

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents must have information regarding specific mine
reclamation projects planned, underway, or completed.  General
information or generalized statistics about mine reclamation are not
relevant.  Also not relevant are remining projects or mining refuse
reclamation.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 790

<title> women's rights in Saudi Arabia

<desc> Description:
Provide any description of laws or restrictions affecting Saudi
Arabian women's rights.

<narr> Narrative:
Acceptable documents must provide a narrative description of Saudi
laws or restrictions affecting Saudi women.  Relevance to women must
be specifically mentioned; general laws affecting women only as a
subset of the whole Population is not acceptable. Documents that
allude to women's rights and restrictions are not acceptable unless
they give an example, however vague.  References to changes in the
laws, improvements, etc. are all acceptable. The time period should be
relatively current (past 50 years).

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 791

<title> Gullah geechee language culture

<desc> Description:
Describe the historical background and present status of
Gullah-Geechee language and culture

<narr> Narrative:
Information on the origin and development of the Gullah-Geechee
people, language and culture is relevant. Statements on relationships
to other groups, languages and cultures are relevant.  Present
geographical limits and geographical origins are relevant. Simple
identification of an individual as Gullah-Geechee is not considered
relevant.


</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 792

<title> Social Security means test

<desc> Description:
Does Social Security use a means test?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents will define "means test" and describe how it is
used in figuring Social Security benefits. Discussions on the way in
which means tests have changed over the years are also relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 793

<title> Bagpipe Bands

<desc> Description:
Give information on, and examples of, bagpipe bands.

<narr> Narrative:
References to, or descriptions of, actual or fictional bagpipe bands
are relevant.  Abstract discussions of bagpipe bands are
relevant. Bands don't have to be named.  Bagpipes must make up a major
part of the band to be relevant.  Bagpipe-and-drum bands and
bagpipe-and-accordion bands are relevant. Bands that include a nominal
bagpipe or two are not relevant. A single bagpiper playing alone is
not relevant, but two or more bagpipers playing together are relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 794

<title> pet therapy

<desc> Description:
How are pets or animals used in therapy for humans and what are the
benefits?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents must include details of how pet- or animal-assisted
therapy is or has been used.  Relevant details include information
about pet therapy programs, descriptions of the circumstances in which
pet therapy is used, the benefits of this type of therapy, the degree
of success of this therapy, and any laws or regulations governing it.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 795

<title> notable cocker spaniels

<desc> Description:
Provide any reference to notable cockers or other spaniels.

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents must identify a spaniel that is notable by fame
(Lady), association with a famous person (Checkers), or newsworthy
activity (bomb-sniffing airport security duty). Although cocker
spaniels are preferred, other spaniels (such as water, Brittany,
clumber, etc.) are accepted. A spaniel mentioned as a pet on someone's
Web biography will be acceptable as long as the owner has some degree
of notoriety.  For example, the dog of a state governor is relevant;
some company website's middle manager's dog is not. A newsworthy
activity can include any special talent, trick, or service.  Lists of
books about dogs are not acceptable unless there is some
identification of the dog.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 796

<title> Blue Grass Music Festival history

<desc> Description:
Describe the history of bluegrass music and give location of bluegrass
festivals.

<narr> Narrative:
Any facts relating to the history of bluegrass music are
relevant. Music festivals including bluegrass are relevant whether
titled "bluegrass" blue grass or not.  Geographical location of
festivals is relevant while date or time of year is optional.


</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 797

<title> reintroduction of gray wolves

<desc> Description:
Where in the US have gray wolves been reintroduced in the wild?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents must have information about planned or accomplished
reintroductions of gray wolves and include some detail as to number or
location.  Reintroductions of any type of gray wolf are relevant.  Any
other wolf species is not relevant.  Proposals for, or discussions and
debates about gray wolf reintroduction is not relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 798

<title> Massachusetts textile mills

<desc> Description:
History, development, and locations of textile mills in Massachusetts

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents must provide narrative information about the
Massachusetts textile mills. Descriptions of preserved mill-related
sites open to the public are acceptable if they contain historical
information. Sites included only as part of a tour itinerary are not
acceptable. Lesson plans with activities relating to mills are not
acceptable. Mill references appearing only as Web links,
bibliographies, or tables of contents are not acceptable.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 799

<title> Animals in Alzheimer's research

<desc> Description:
What animals have been used in Alzheimer's research?

<narr> Narrative:
Animals that are or were effectively used in Alzheimer's research are
relevant.  Animals that were tried and found not effective in
Alzheimer's research are also relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 800

<title> Ovarian Cancer Treatment

<desc> Description:
The remedies and treatments given to lesson or stop effects of ovarian
cancer.

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents must include names of chemicals or medicines used
to fight ovarian cancer. Studies of new treatments that are being
tried are valid, even if they have not reached a conclusion as to
effectiveness.

</top>

