<top>
<num> Number: 701

<title> U.S. oil industry history

<desc> Description:
Describe the history of the U.S. oil industry

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents will include those on historical exploration and
drilling as well as history of regulatory bodies. Relevant are history
of the oil industry in various states, even if drilling began in 1950
or later.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 702

<title> Pearl farming

<desc> Description:
Pearl farming operations: actual farming operations described,
culturing pearls, "Japanese pearl productions," status of pearl
farming, production.

<narr> Narrative:
Definitions of difference between natural, cultured, and imitation
pearls is relevant. Description of how pearls are formed and
discussion of mussel production for use in pearl preselection is
relevant. "Pearl industry" with no further detail is NOT
relevant. Rules for jewelers is relevant.  Statistics on pearl
production are relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 703

<title> U.S. against International Criminal Court

<desc> Description:
What are the arguments the U.S. uses against joining the International 
Criminal Court?

<narr> Narrative:
The title of an article alone is not sufficient to make a document
relevant, nor are lists of articles relevant without descriptions of their
content.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 704

<title> Green party political views

<desc> Description:
What are the goals and political views of the Green Party.

<narr> Narrative:
Evidence that the Green Party is a recognized U.S. political party is
relevant.  Documents which reveal their goals, values, or political
views are relevant.  Attempts by green party members to stop or
interrupt U.S. government efforts regarding certain environmental
actions which they disagree with is not relevant.  Any members names
noted are considered relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 705

<title> Iraq foreign debt reduction

<desc> Description:
Identify any efforts, proposed or undertaken, by world governments to seek 
reduction of Iraq's foreign debt.

<narr> Narrative: Documents noting this subject as a topic for
discussion (e.g. at U.N. and G7) are relevant. Money pledged for
reconstruction is irrelevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 706

<title> Controlling type II diabetes

<desc> Description:
What are methods used to control type II diabetes?

<narr> Narrative:
Items containing such controls as determining blood sugar levels and
keeping triglycerides, cholesterol and blood pressure in normal ranges
are relevant. Mention of mild to moderate weight loss, regular
exercise and learning new behaviors and attitudes, medications is
relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 707

<title> Aspirin cancer prevention

<desc> Description:
What evidence is there that aspirin may help prevent cancer?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents will state the type of cancer and the organizations
which made the findings that aspirin was useful in prevention.
Documents which appear to only link to the desired information,
rather than having this information in the document, are not relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 708

<title> Decorative slate sources

<desc> Description:
What are sources of slate stone for decorative use?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents will mention where slate can be obtained that is
appropriate for decorative uses such as flooring, counter tops, or art.
Quarries as well as distributors are relevant.  "Slate belt" does not
imply a source of slate.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 709

<title> Horse racing jockey weight

<desc> Description:
What are the limits and regulations concerning jockey weight in horse
racing?

<narr> Narrative:
Documents which discuss rules for horse racing relating to the weight
of the jockey are relevant.  Documents which give a minimum jockey
weight are relevant.  List of titles of sections with no text are NOT
relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 710

<title> Prostate cancer treatments

<desc> Description:
What are the various treatments for prostate cancer?

<narr> Narrative: 
Relevant cancer treatments include radiation therapy, radioactive
pellets, hormonal therapy and surgery. "Watchful waiting" is also
considered relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 711

<title> Train station security measures

<desc> Description:
What security measures have been employed at train stations due to
heightened security concerns?

<narr> Narrative:
Use of national guard forces is considered relevant. Surveillance
cameras, more police officers, K-9 units, and better ID checks are
considered relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 712

<title> Pyramid scheme

<desc> Description:
What are some actual examples of pyramid schemes?

<narr> Narrative:
A relevant document must describe the actual pyramid scheme, not just
the place it occurred or that it was a pyramid scheme.  Theoretical
description of a pyramid scheme is not relevant. Ponzi schemes are
relevant (they are a type of pyramid).

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 713

<title> Chesapeake Bay Maryland clean

<desc> Description:
What is the state of Maryland doing to clean up the Chesapeake Bay?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents will describe what Maryland in particular is doing
to clean up the Bay.  Documents that focus on other states that only
mention Maryland in a group of cooperating states are not relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 714

<title> License restrictions older drivers

<desc> Description:
What restrictions are placed on older persons renewing their drivers'
licenses in the U.S.?

<narr> Narrative:
Not relevant are documents on restrictions for persons with medical
conditions, not necessarily related to age. Also not relevant are lists
of publications on drivers licenses for older persons which give no
restriction information.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 715

<title> Schizophrenia drugs

<desc> Description:
What organizations (private or governmental) are developing drugs to combat 
schizophrenia?

<narr> Narrative:
Mention of pharmaceutical companies and university laboratories
developing drugs is relevant. Also relevant are entities (such as
NIMH) engaged in clinical trials of drugs which had been developed but
were still under investigation.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 716

<title> Spammer arrest sue

<desc> Description:
Have any spammers been arrested or sued for sending unsolicited
e-mail?

<narr> Narrative:
Instances of arrests, prosecutions, convictions, and punishments of
spammers, and lawsuits against them are relevant.  Documents which
describe laws to limit spam without giving details of lawsuits or
criminal trials are not relevant.


</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 717

<title> Gifted talented student programs

<desc> Description:
What states or localities offer programs for gifted and talented students?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant is any document that shows a state or locality offers a
program for gifted and talented children. Not relevant are documents
on federal programs for gifted and talented children, nor information
on organizations that promote programs for gifted and talented
students.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 718

<title> Controlling acid rain

<desc> Description:
What methods are used to control acid rain and its effects?

<narr> Narrative:
Documents pertaining to the decrease or eliminations of sulfur dioxide
and nitrogen oxides into the air are relevant. Any reduction of the
burning of fossil fuels is also relevant. Documents pertaining to the
"Clean Air Act" are considered relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 719

<title> Cruise ship damage sea life

<desc> Description:
What kinds of harm do cruise ships do to sea life such as coral reefs,
and what is the extent of the damage?

<narr> Narrative:
References to "large ships" or "shipping" are relevant unless a
freighter or other type of non-cruise ship is specified or is
otherwise apparent from name or picture.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 720

<title> Federal welfare reform

<desc> Description:
Find documents about Federal welfare reform legislation, regulation,
and policy.

<narr> Narrative:
Documents pertaining to welfare reform by a state are irrelevant.
Resources such as pertinent legislation, regulations, policy and
reports on the progress of Federal welfare reform are relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 721

<title> Census data applications

<desc> Description:
What applications are there for U.S. decennial census data, and how is
it used?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents must clearly describe how census data is used.
Documents which only list types of available census data are not
relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 722

<title> Iran terrorism

<desc> Description:
In what ways does Iran support terrorism?

<narr> Narrative:
Documents state only that Iran supports terrorism, without giving
details, are not relevant.  Relevant documents will identify terrorist
groups sponsored by Iran, official links between Iran and terrorist
attacks, or funding trails.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 723

<title> Executive privilege

<desc> Description:
What is the U.S. government's definition of "executive privilege?"

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents will define the term "executive privilege", or
describe an invocation of executive privilege which helps explain it.
Application of executive privilege beyond the President to the
executive branch is relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 724

<title> Iran Contra

<desc> Description:
What was the Iran-Contra scandal and what were the consequences?

<narr> Narrative:
Not relevant are documents that mention the Iran-Contra affair only
peripherally in discussing some other subject.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 725

<title> Low white blood cell count

<desc> Description:
What would cause a lowered white blood cell count?

<narr> Narrative:
A relevant document will describe a condition or disease that causes a
lowered white blood cell count.  Lowered white blood cell counts
caused by HIV infection, bone marrow failure and chemotherapy are
relevant.  A low count caused by a treatment or medication would also
be relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 726

<title> Hubble telescope repairs

<desc> Description:
What repairs have been made on the Hubble telescope?

<narr> Narrative:
Not relevant are documents such as lists of resources, inquiries or
photos of or by Hubble that provide no information on repairs, unless
the captions discuss or describe repairs.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 727

<title> Church arson

<desc> Description:
Identify any specific instances of church arson.

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents must identify a specific arson attack and give the
name of the church and/or its location.  General references such as
mention of histories or patterns of arsons at churches, or statistics
from the church arson task force were considered irrelevant.
Suspected arson and burning of synagogues are considered relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 728

<title> whales save endangered

<desc> Description:
What's being done to save endangered whales?

<narr> Narrative:
A relevant document will reveal any noted efforts to save whales.  The
classification of certain whales as an endangered species is an effort
to save them, and therefore documents reflecting this are relevant.
Proposals to limit whale hunting are not relevant if they are
proposals not actual laws or regulations. Bans and moratoriums on
whaling are relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 729

<title> Whistle blower department of defense

<desc> Description:
What have been revelations of whistle blowers concerning the U.S.
Department of Defense?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents will describe instances of kickbacks, fraud, or
other illegal activity revealed by whistle blowers at the Department
of Defense.  Whistle blower protections and regulations are not
relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 730

<title> Gastric bypass complications

<desc> Description:
What are some of the possible complications and potential dangers of
gastric bypass surgery?

<narr> Narrative:
Mention of other bypass surgeries (e.g. heart, intestinal bypass,
vertical banding, etc) are not considered relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 731

<title> Kurds history

<desc> Description:
What is the history of the Kurds?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant are documents on long-time history of the Kurds, as well as
documents on recent events, such as Saddam Hussein's 1988 poison gas
attack on Kurdish residents of Halabja. Not relevant are documents on
unrelated subjects that only briefly mention the Halabja attack.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 732

<title> U.S. cheese production 

<desc> Description:
What cheese production is carried out in the U.S.?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents describe cheese production, including cheddar,
swiss, gouda, and goat cheese.  Products that include cheese are not
relevant unless it is made clear that the cheese is made in the
U.S. USDA regulations are not relevant unless they cite U.S.-produced
cheese.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 733

<title> Airline overbooking

<desc> Description:
What are the regulations regarding airline overbooking?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents indicate regulations or industry rules which govern
the practice of overbooking, selling more seats than are available on
the plane.  Schedules for reporting over-sales are relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 734

<title> Recycling successes

<desc> Description:
What recycling projects have been successful?

<narr> Narrative:
Guidelines by themselves are not relevant. Titles in a table of
contents are relevant if they identify places or product programs
which have had success. Must be declared successful or success should
be clearly assumed from the description.  Name of state identified as
successful recycler is relevant. Listing of recycled products for sale
are relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 735

<title> Afghan women condition

<desc> Description:
Is the condition of Afghan women better under the new government than
under the Taliban?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents must give information about Afghan women,
post-Taliban, including whether they have more rights and freedom. Not
relevant are documents from U.S. officials supporting women's rights
or describing U.S. aid to Afghanistan aimed to help women.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 736

<title> location BSE infections

<desc> Description:
Where have animals infected with bovine spongiform encephalopathy
(also known as BSE or Mad Cow disease) been found?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents should be specific, i.e. give a country or state
instead of Europe or Asia.  BSE should not be confused with TSE
(Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathy).  Measures taken to limit or
curb BSE infections are not relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 737

<title> Enron California energy crisis

<desc> Description:
What allegations have been made about Enron's culpability in the
California Energy crisis?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents will allege than Enron contributed to California's
energy crisis.  Mention of the failure of Enron to provide documents
is not relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 738

<title> Anthrax hoaxes

<desc> Description:
What are some examples of anthrax hoaxes?

<narr> Narrative:
Only specific examples are relevant. Documents giving statistics such
as "20 individuals arrested for hoaxes" are not relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 739

<title> Habitat for Humanity

<desc> Description:
What is the organization "Habitat for Humanity", and what activities
are they involved in?

<narr> Narrative:
Documents that explain a specific Habitat for Humanity program are
relevant. Locations of Habitat for Humanity chapters are
relevant. Documents that reveal the purpose of Habitat for Humanity
are relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 740

<title> regulate assisted living Maryland

<desc> Description:
Who regulates assisted living facilities in Maryland?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents will indicate agencies which regulate assisted
living facilities in Maryland.  Documents which mention such an agency
without indicating their regulatory responsibility are not relevant.
Documents mentioning the agency and purpose, but not the state are not
relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 741

<title> Artificial Intelligence

<desc> Description:
What is artificial intelligence?

<narr> Narrative:
Any documents pertaining to pattern recognition, problem-solving,
natural language processing, and game playing, which are branches of
artificial intelligence, are relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 742

<title> hedge funds fraud protection

<desc> Description:
What protection do investors have against fraud by hedge funds?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents will give information on consumer protections
against fraud by hedge funds.  If different financial structures are
involved, such as multiple kinds of funds or derivatives, the document
is not relevant unless it makes clear that the fraud applies to hedge
funds.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 743

<title> Freighter ship registration

<desc> Description:
What are the regulations and other considerations concerning
registering a freighter in a country?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents will describe rules and regulations for registering
a freighter under a particular flag or country.  Anything relating to
registration of freighters is relevant.  Information about other types
of ships is not relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 744

<title> Counterfeit ID punishments

<desc> Description:
What punishments or sentences have been given in the U.S. for
making or selling counterfeit IDs?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents will describe punishments for manufacturing or
selling counterfeit identification, such as drivers licenses,
passports, social security cards, etc.  Fake professional
certifications and fake credit cards are relevant. Counterfeit goods
or auto serial numbers not relevant. Counterfeit checks are not
relevant.  "Counterfeiting" with no indication of type is relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 745

<title> Doomsday cults

<desc> Description:
Identify any doomsday cult, their name, and location throughout the world.

<narr> Narrative:
To be relevant a document must reflect that the cult is a doomsday or
apocalyptic cult.  Any document which indicates the location (by
country) and name of the doomsday cult is relevant. References to cults
other than doomsday cults is not relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 746

<title> Outsource job India

<desc> Description:
What jobs have been outsourced to India?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents will identify jobs which used to be in the U.S. but
have been outsourced to India.  When the word "outsourced" is used not
used but implied it is still relevant.  Outsourcing to other countries
besides India is not relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 747

<title> Library computer oversight

<desc> Description:
What control or oversight is there over computer use in public libraries?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents will describe specific controls or oversight
mechanisms that currently are in use.  Bills that propose controls but
have not been passed are not relevant.  Statements regarding a lack of
control/monitoring are not relevant.  The fact that a Librarian must
load CDs for patrons is relevant.  Fees for computer print outs are
not relevant.  Statement of illegal activities that are prohibited is
not relevant.  Restrictions to legal research is relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 748

<title> Nuclear reactor types

<desc> Description:
Name the types of nuclear reactor power plants in operation in the United 
States. 

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant document will contain information which identifies the type
of commercial nuclear reactors in use in the United States. Documents
indicating the difference in how these reactors work is
relevant. General information on nuclear reactors is not
relevant. Future changes in nuclear reactors is not relevant. Total
numbers of each type of reactor is of relevance.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 749

<title> Puerto Rico state

<desc> Description:
Do people in Puerto Rico want for it to become a U.S. State?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents will show that the Puerto Rican people want or do
not want United States statehood. Relevant documents can contain
information indicating other choices for Puerto Ricans such as to
remain a commonwealth of the U.S.  or to become an independent
nation. All other documents containing Puerto Rico commercial,
geographical, economic, etc. information is not relevant.

</top>

<top>
<num> Number: 750

<title> John Edwards womens issues

<desc> Description:
What are Senator John Edwards' positions on women's issues such as pay
equity, abortion, Title IX and violence against women.

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents will indicate Senator John Edwards' stand on issues
concerning women, such as pay parity, abortion rights, Title IX, and
violence against women.  Lists of press releases are relevant when the
headlines show he is voting for or against bills on women's
issues. Not relevant are Edwards' positions on issues not exclusively
concerning women.

</top>

