<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  051 


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Airbus Subsidies


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss government assistance to Airbus Industrie, or mention a
trade dispute between Airbus and a U.S. aircraft producer over the issue of
subsidies.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss government assistance to Airbus Industrie, or mention a
trade dispute between Airbus and a U.S. aircraft producer over the issue of
subsidies.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will cite or discuss assistance to Airbus Industrie by the
French, German, British or Spanish government(s), or will discuss a trade
dispute between Airbus or the European governments and a U.S. aircraft
producer, most likely Boeing Co. or McDonnell Douglas Corp., or the U.S.
government, over federal subsidies to Airbus.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Airbus Industrie

2. European aircraft consortium, Messerschmitt-Boelkow-Blohm GmbH, British
   Aerospace PLC, Aerospatiale, Construcciones Aeronauticas S.A.
  
3. federal subsidies, government assistance, aid, loan, financing

4. trade dispute, trade controversy, trade tension

5. General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) aircraft code

6. Trade Policy Review Group (TPRG)

7. complaint, objection

8. retaliation, anti-dumping duty petition, countervailing duty petition,
   sanctions


<fac> Factor(s):



<def> Definition(s):

</top>

<top>


<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  052 


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  South African Sanctions


<desc> Description:

Document discusses sanctions against South Africa.


<smry> Summary:

Document discusses international sanctions against South Africa.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss any aspect of South African sanctions, such
as: sanctions declared/proposed by a country against the South African
government in response to its apartheid policy, or in response to pressure by
an individual, organization or another country; international sanctions
against Pretoria imposed by the United Nations; the effects of sanctions
against S. Africa; opposition to sanctions; or, compliance with sanctions by a
company.  The document will identify the sanctions instituted or being
considered, e.g., corporate disinvestment, trade ban, academic boycott, arms
embargo.


<con> Concept(s):

1. sanctions, international sanctions, economic sanctions

2. corporate exodus, corporate disinvestment, stock divestiture, ban on new
   investment, trade ban, import ban on South African diamonds, U.N. arms
   embargo, curtailment of defense contracts, cutoff of nonmilitary goods,
   academic boycott, reduction of cultural ties

3. apartheid, white domination, racism

4. antiapartheid, black majority rule   

5. Pretoria


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality:  South Africa

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  053 


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Leveraged Buyouts  


<desc> Description:

Document mentions a leveraged buyout valued at or above 200 million dollars.


<smry> Summary:

Document mentions a leveraged buyout valued at or above 200 million dollars.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will cite a leveraged buyout (LBO) valued at or above 200
million dollars.  The LBO may be at any stage, e.g., considered, proposed,
pending, a fact.  The company (being) taken private must be identified.  The
offer may be expressed in dollars a share.


<con> Concept(s):

1. leveraged buyout, LBO

2. take private, go private

3. management-led leveraged buyout


<fac> Factor(s):
<price> Price:  >= 200 million dollars
</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

Leveraged Buyout (LBO) - Takeover of a company using borrowed funds, with the
target company's assets serving as security for the loans taken out by the
acquiring firm, which repays the loans out of the cash flow of the acquired
company or from the sale of the assets of the acquired firm.

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description

<num> Number:  054 


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Satellite Launch Contracts


<desc> Description:

Document will cite the signing of a contract or preliminary agreement, or the
making of a tentative reservation, to launch a commercial satellite.


<smry> Summary:

Document will cite the signing of a contract or preliminary agreement, or the
making of a tentative reservation, to launch a commercial satellite.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will mention the signing of a contract or preliminary
agreement , or the making of a tentative reservation, to launch a commercial
satellite.


<con> Concept(s):

1. contract, agreement

2. launch vehicle, rocket, payload, satellite
 
3. launch services, commercial space industry, commercial launch industry

4. Arianespace, Martin Marietta, General Dynamics, McDonnell Douglas

5. Titan, Delta II, Atlas, Ariane, Proton


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  055 


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Insider Trading


<desc> Description:  

Document discusses an insider-trading case.


<smry> Summary:

Document discusses an insider-trading case.


<narr> Narrative:  

A relevant document will discuss an insider-trading case, identifying the
accused/the defendant(s), as well as the government doing the investigation.
It will also mention at least one of the following specifics of the case: the
alleged illegal activity, whether charged with providing or using insider
information, possible conspirator's role in the scheme, the monetary amount of
illegal profit and of damage; if pronounced guilty, then the sentence terms,
e.g., monetary penalty (cash payment), time in prison, cooperation with the
government, probation, community service, being barred from the industry for a
certain time period.


<con> Concept(s):

1. insider-trading case

2. insider-trading scheme, illegal insider-trading activity, illegal
   securities transactions, white-collar crime, securities-law violations

3. insider-trading investigation, insider-trading probe

4. Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC

5. investment banking, investment banker, arbitrage, arbitrager, securities
   analyst

6. inside information, advance knowledge of corporate takeovers 

7. leaking information, misappropriating information, leaking word, leaking
   news, passing a tip

8. pre-bid market activity, takeover speculation, matched-book
   transaction


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

Insider Trading - Dealing in shares with the advantage of inside information.
The owners of shares in a public company are all supposed to be equal - so if
one of them knows that the company is about to go broke before the others and
sells his shares while their price is still good, that is unfair.  In many
countries, including the U.S. and the U.K., it is also illegal.  However, it
is very difficult to prove that an investor is buying or selling shares on the
basis of inside information.

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  056 


<dom> Domain:  International Finance


<title> Topic:  Prime (Lending) Rate Moves, Predictions


<desc> Description:

Document will include a prediction about the prime lending rate, or will
report an actual prime rate move.


<smry> Summary:

Document will include a prediction about the prime lending rate, or will
report an actual prime rate move.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will include a prediction about the prime lending rate
(national-level or major banks'), or will report a prime rate move by major
banks, in response to or in anticipation of a federal/national-level action,
such as a cut in the discount rate.


<con> Concept(s):

1. prime lending rate, prime rate, base rate, reference rate, minimum lending
   rate, bank rate, weekly bank rate

2. Federal Reserve Board, Bank of Canada, major commercial banks

3. foresee, expect, predict, speculate

4. move, increase, decrease, rise, decline, boost, cut 


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  057 


<dom> Domain:  U.S. Economics


<title> Topic:  MCI


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss how MCI has been doing since the Bell System breakup.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss how MCI (Multiport Communications Interface) has
been doing since the Bell System breakup.


<narr> Narrative:
 
A relevant document will discuss the financial health of MCI Communications
Corp. since the breakup of the Bell System (AT&T and the seven regional Baby
Bells) in January 1984.  The status indicated may not necessarily be a direct
or indirect result of the breakup of the system and ensuing regulation and
deregulation of Ma Bell or of the restrictions placed upon the seven Bells; it
may result from any number of factors, such as advances in telecommunications
technology, MCI initiative, etc.  MCI's financial health may be reported
directly: a broad statement about its earnings or cash flow, or a report
containing financial data such as a quarterly report; or it may be reflected
by one or more of the following: credit ratings, share of customers, volume
growth, cuts in capital spending, $$ figure net loss, pre-tax charge,
analysts' or MCI's own forecast about how well they will be doing, or MCI's
response to price cuts that AT&T makes at its own initiative or under orders
from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), such as price reductions,
layoffs of employees out of a perceived need to cut costs, etc.  Daily OTC
trading stock market and monthly short interest reports are NOT relevant; the
inventory must be longer term, at least quarterly.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  MCI Communications Corp.

2.  Bell System breakup

3.  Federal Communications Commission, FCC

4.  regulation, deregulation

5.  profits, revenue, net income, net loss, write-downs

6.  NOT daily OTC trading, NOT monthly short interest


<fac> Factor(s):

Time:  after January 1984

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  058


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Rail Strikes


<desc> Description:

Document will predict or anticipate a rail strike or report an ongoing rail 
strike.  


<smry> Summary:

Document will predict or anticipate a rail strike or report an ongoing rail 
strike.  


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will either report an impending rail strike, describing
the conditions which may lead to a strike, or will provide an update on an
ongoing strike.  To be relevant, the document will identify the location of
the strike or potential strike.  For an impending strike, the document will
report the status of negotiations, contract talks, etc. to enable an
assessment of the probability of a strike.  For an ongoing strike, the
document will report the length of the strike to the current date and the
status of negotiations or mediation.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  rail strike, picket, stoppage, lockout, walkout, wildcat

2.  rail union, negotiator, railroad, federal conciliator, brotherhood

3.  union proposal, talks, settlement, featherbedding, cost cutting

4.  working without a contract, expired contract, cooling off period


<fac> Factor(s):

<time> Time:  Current

</fac>

<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  059 


<dom> Domain:  Environment


<title> Topic:  Weather Related Fatalities


<desc> Description:

Document will report a type of weather event which has directly caused at
least one fatality in some location.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report a type of weather event which has directly caused at
least one fatality in some location.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will include the number of people killed and injured by
the weather event, as well as reporting the type of weather event and the
location of the event.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  lightning, avalanche, tornado, typhoon, hurricane, heat, heat wave, flood,
    snow, rain, downpour, blizzard, storm, freezing temperatures

2.  dead, killed, fatal, death, fatality, victim

3.  NOT man-made disasters, NOT war-induced famine

4.  NOT earthquakes, NOT volcanic eruptions


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  060 


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Merit-Pay vs. Seniority


<desc> Description:

Document will describe either one or both sides of the controversy over the
use of standards of performance to determine salary levels and incentive pay
as contrasted with determining pay solely on the basis of seniority or
longevity on the job.


<smry> Summary:

Document will describe either one or both sides of the controversy
over a change in the use of standards of performance to determine
salary levels and incentive pay as contrasted with determining pay
solely on the basis of seniority or longevity on the job.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will name an employer (company, institution, or
governmental entity) which has announced a change in its policy regarding
merit vs. seniority in paying employees, or name an employee group (union or
lobbying group) which is protesting a change in merit vs. seniority status for
a particular employee group.  The change announced should be a move away from
one policy toward another, not an announcement of across-the-board cuts as a
cost-cutting measure.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  merit-pay, merit pay, performance, award program, bonus

2.  seniority, longevity, cost-of-living

3.  salary, pay, compensation, raise

4.  appraisal, evaluation, assessment, testing, career ladder, peer review,
    certifying


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  061 


<dom> Domain:  International Politics


<title> Topic:  Israeli Role in Iran-Contra Affair


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss the role of Israel in the Iran-Contra Affair.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss the role of Israel in the Iran-Contra Affair.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss Israel's role in the Iran-Contra Affair.  Any
mention or hint of Israeli involvement in the scandal, e.g., selling arms to
Iran, suggesting diverting profits from sales of arms to Iran to Nicaraguan
insurgents, participating in diversion of funds to the Contras, kicking back
money to Iranian officials, kidnapping relatives of top Iranian officials by
the Mossad (Israeli intelligence service) to be exchanged for U.S. hostages in
Lebanon, is relevant.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Iran-Contra affair, initiative, controversy, scandal

2.  role of Israel, Israeli involvement

3.  Israeli intermediaries, middlemen, arms dealers, government officials

4.  David Kimche, Michael Ledeen, Jaacov Nimrodi


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 062


<dom> Domain:  Military


<title> Topic:  Military Coups D'etat


<desc> Description:

Document will report a military coup d'etat, either attempted or successful,
in any country.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report a military coup d'etat, either attempted or successful,
in any country.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify the country involved, the group responsible
for the coup or coup attempt, the target of the coup, and the motivation of
the coup plotters. It should NOT be about civilian government shake ups.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  coup d'etat, coup attempt, skirmish, revolt, mutiny

2.  oust, take charge, rebel, storm, surrender

3.  regime

4.  amnesty


<fac> Factor(s):

<Time>  Time:  Current

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  063 


<dom> Domain:  Science and Technology


<title> Topic:  Machine Translation


<desc> Description:

Document will identify a machine translation system.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify a machine translation system.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify a machine translation system which is being
developed or marketed in any country.  It will identify the developer or
vendor, name the system, and identify one or more features of the system.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  machine translation system

2.  language, dictionary, font

3.  batch, interactive, process, user interface


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  064 


<dom> Domain:  International Relations


<title> Topic:  Hostage-Taking


<desc> Description:

Document will report an event or result of politically motivated
hostage-taking.

<smry> Summary:

Document will report an event or result of politically motivated
hostage-taking.

<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report an attempt (successful or unsuccessful) to
seize a hostage for some political purpose, report on hostages currently held,
or report a current hostage release event.  The document will identify the
nationality of the victim, some identification of the perpetrators
(nationality or religion), and location where the hostage-taking occurred.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  kidnap, seize, hijack

2.  negotiate, trade, exchange, swap

3.  free, release

4.  retaliate

5.  captivity, terrorism

6.  captors, hostages, negotiator, victims


<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  065


<dom> Domain:  Science and Technology


<title> Topic:  Information Retrieval Systems


<desc> Description:

Document will identify a type of information retrieval system.


<smry> Summary:

A relevant document will identify a new information retrieval system, identify
the company or person marketing the system, and identify some of the
characteristics of the system.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify an information retrieval system, identify
the company or person marketing the system, and identify some of the
characteristics of the system.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  information retrieval system

2.  storage, database, data, query


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  066 


<dom> Domain:  Science and Technology


<title> Topic:  Natural Language Processing


<desc> Description:

Document will identify a type of natural language processing technology which
is being developed or marketed in the U.S.

<smry> Summary:

Document will identify a type of natural language processing technology which
is being developed or marketed in the U.S.

<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify a company or institution developing or
marketing a natural language processing technology, identify the technology,
and identify one or more features of the company's product.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  natural language processing

2.  translation, language, dictionary, font

3.  software applications


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat>  Nationality:  U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  067 


<dom> Domain:  International Relations


<title> Topic:  Politically Motivated Civil Disturbances


<desc> Description:

Document will report a current civil disturbance in any country, involving
citizens of that country protesting a political position of their own
country's government.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report a current civil disturbance in any country, involving
citizens of that country protesting a political position of their own
country's government.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report the location of the disturbance, the identity
of the group causing the disturbance, the nature of the disturbance, the
identity of the group suppressing the disturbance and the political goals of
the protesters. It should NOT be about economically-motivated civil
disturbances and NOT be about a civil disturbance directed against a second
country.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  protest, unrest, demonstration, march, riot, clash, uprising, rally,
    boycott, sit-in

2.  students, agitators, dissidents

3.  police, riot police, troops, army, National Guard, government forces

4.  NOT economically-motivated


<fac> Factor(s):

<time>  Time:  Current

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  068


<dom> Domain:  Science and Technology


<title> Topic:  Health Hazards from Fine-Diameter Fibers


<desc> Description:

Document will report actual studies, or even unsubstantiated concerns about
the safety to manufacturing employees and installation workers of
fine-diameter fibers used in insulation and other products.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report actual studies, or even unsubstantiated concerns about
the safety to manufacturing employees and installation workers of
fine-diameter fibers used in insulation and other products.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report the type of fiber in question, and whether the
fiber has been determined to be harmful or is merely suspected of being
harmful.

<con> Concept(s):

1.  fine-diameter fibers, glass, ceramic, mineral-wool, asbestos, cellulose

2.  diminished lung capacity, cancer

3.  workplace safety, OSHA


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  069


<dom> Domain:  International Relations


<title> Topic:  Attempts to Revive the SALT II Treaty


<desc> Description:

Document will report an attempt by the U.S. House of Representatives or a
European country to revive the SALT II Treaty ceilings on weapons in order to
limit President Reagan's military build up.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report an attempt by the U.S. House of Representatives or a
European country to revive the SALT II Treaty ceilings on weapons in order to
limit President Reagan's military build up.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will describe an attempt to push the U.S. Administration
to adhere to the limits on weapons proposed in SALT II.  To be relevant the
document must identify what group is pushing the policy and what methods they
are using to influence the U.S. Administration.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  SALT II, treaty, ceiling, missiles

2.  House, Senate, President, Europe

3.  war, enemy, fight


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

SALT II - Treaty signed by Carter and Brezhnev in 1979 limiting the number of
several categories of strategic weapons which the Soviet Union and the U.S.
would build and deploy.  The treaty was never ratified by the U.S. Senate, and
expired in 1985.

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  070 


<dom> Domain:  Law and Government


<title> Topic:  Surrogate Motherhood


<desc> Description:

Document will report judicial proceedings and opinions on contracts for
surrogate motherhood.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report judicial proceedings and opinions on contracts for
surrogate motherhood.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report legal opinions, judgments, and decisions
regarding surrogate motherhood and the custody of any children which result
from surrogate motherhood.  To be relevant, a document must identify the case,
state the issues which are or were being decided and report at least one
ethical or legal question which arises from the case.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  surrogate, mothers, motherhood

2.  judge, lawyer, court, lawsuit, custody, hearing, opinion, finding


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):


</top>
 
<top>


<head>  Tipster Topic Description


<num>  Number:  071


<dom>  Domain:  Military


<title>  Topic:  Border Incursions


<desc>  Description:

Document will report incursions by land, air, or water into the border area of
one country by military forces of a second country or a guerrilla group based
in a second country.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report brief incursions by land, air, or water into the
border area of one country by military forces of a second country or a
guerrilla group based in a second country.


<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document will name the invading country or group, name the invaded
country, and identify the target or goal of the attacking force.  The target
or goal must be a military objective. It should NOT be about a war or invasion
in which troops remain on foreign soil for a sustained engagement. 
It should NOT be about a territorial dispute or economic dispute (such as
fishing rights) which is being negotiated or argued by civilian groups.



<con>  Concept(s):

1.  rebels, refugees, soldiers, guerrillas

2.  raid, assault, skirmish, dispute, fighting, clash, retaliation

3.  border, frontier, ford, thalweg, air space, territorial limit

4.  NOT sustained engagement

5.  NOT fishing rights

<fac>  Factor(s):


<def>  Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head>  Tipster Topic Description


<num>  Number:  072


<dom>  Domain:  U.S. Economics


<title>  Topic:  Demographic Shifts in the U.S.


<desc>  Description:

Document will report a movement of people from one area of the U.S. to another
for a variety of reasons. The movement of population described should be large
enough to have some economic impact.

<smry> Summary:

Document will report a movement of people from one area of the U.S. to another
for a variety of reasons. The movement of population described should be large
enough to have some economic impact.

<narr>  Narrative:

A relevant document will name the location (state, county, city, town, or
geographical area) which is undergoing a demographic shift, report whether the
shift is a gain or loss of population, and give some indication of the
magnitude of the shift such as a number, percentage, ratio, or ranking.
The movement of population described should be large
enough to have some impact on the economy of either the losing area, the
receiving area, or both.


<con>  Concept(s):

1.  population

2.  shift, gain, loss

3.  census


<fac>  Factor(s):

<nat>  Nationality:  U.S.

</fac>


<def>  Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  073


<dom> Domain:  International Economics


<title> Topic:  Demographic Shifts across National Boundaries


<desc> Description:

Document will report a movement of people from one country to another for a
variety of reasons. The movement of population described should be large enough
to have some economic impact.

<smry> Summary:

Document will report a movement of people from one country to another for a
variety of reasons. The movement of population described should be large enough
to have some economic impact.

<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will name the location (country or geographical area of a
country) which is undergoing a demographic shift, report whether the shift is
a gain or loss of population, and give some indication of the magnitude of the
shift such as a number, percentage, ratio, or ranking.
The movement of population described should be large enough to
have some impact on the economy of either the losing country, the receiving
country, or both.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  population

2.  shift, gain, loss

3.  immigration, emigration, deportation, diaspora, exile


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  074 


<dom> Domain:  Political


<title> Topic:  Conflicting Policy 


<desc> Description:

Document will cite an instance in which the U.S. government propounds two 
conflicting or opposing policies. 


<smry> Summary:

Document will cite an instance in which the U.S. government propounds two 
conflicting or opposing policies. 


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will cite an instance in which the U.S. federal government
propounds two policies which are in conflict with or opposition to each other,
or seem at least hypocritical.  These policies may be cited in the same
document, or in two separate documents within one month's time.  The target is
conflicting policies, NOT a reversal of policy.  Examples of two-faced policy
of interest include: expending funds in the campaign against tobacco use while
subsidizing the U.S. tobacco industry and the marketing of U.S. tobacco
products abroad, allowing imports of produce treated with pesticide which is
banned in the U.S., disapproving the sale of deficient infant formula in the
U.S. while allowing it to be exported to the third world.


<con> Concept(s):

1. condemn, prohibit, ban

2. subsidize


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat>  Nationality:  U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  075


<dom> Domain:  Science and Technology 


<title> Topic:  Automation


<desc> Description:

Document will identify an instance in which automation has clearly paid off,
or conversely, has failed.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify an instance in which automation has clearly paid off,
or conversely, has failed.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will cite a case in which automation has been at least a
factor in cutting costs, by either increased efficiency or a smaller payroll
or both, or a case in which automation has failed for some reason in reducing
costs, or had disappointing results.  The case may involve an industry or a
particular firm.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  automation

2.  increased efficiency, smaller payroll, work force reduction

3.  pay off, cut costs


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  076


<dom> Domain:  Law and Government 


<title> Topic:  U.S. Constitution - Original Intent


<desc> Description:

Document will include a discussion of, or debate over, the issue of the
original intent of the U.S. Constitution, or the meaning of a particular
amendment to the Constitution, or will present an individual's interpretation
of an amendment.


<smry> Summary:

Document will include a discussion of, or debate over, the issue of the
original intent of the U.S. Constitution, or the meaning of a particular
amendment to the Constitution, or will present an individual's interpretation
of an amendment.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will include a discussion of, or debate over, the issue of
the original intent of the U.S. Constitution, or the meaning of a particular
amendment to the Constitution, or will present an individual's interpretation
of an amendment.  (A mere reference to the problem is not relevant.)


<con> Concept(s):

1.  U.S. Constitution, separation of powers, body of the Constitution, Bill of
    Rights, First Amendment, Fifth Amendment

2.  original intent
  

<fac> Factor(s):

<nat>  Nationality:  U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  077


<dom> Domain:  Environment


<title> Topic:  Poaching


<desc> Description:

Document will report a poaching method used against a certain type of
wildlife.

<smry> Summary:

Document will report specific poaching activities including
identification of the type of wildlife being poached, the poaching
technique or method of killing the wildlife which is used by the
poacher, and the reason for the poaching.

<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify the type of wildlife being poached, the
poaching technique or method of killing the wildlife which is used by the
poacher, and the reason for the poaching (e.g. for a trophy, meat, or money).
A report of poaching or someone caught for poaching without mention of the
technique used and the reason is not relevant.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  poaching, illegal hunting, fishing, trapping, equipment

2.  territorial waters, economic zone, game preserve, refuge, park

3.  arrest, impound, fine

4.  issue, agreement, license, treaty, legal limit


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  078


<dom> Domain:  Environment


<title> Topic:  Greenpeace


<desc> Description:

Document will report activity by Greenpeace to carry out their environmental
protection goals.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report activity by Greenpeace to carry out their environmental
protection goals.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report a protest action by Greenpeace, citing the
company or country targeted by the organization, the specific target (such as
a ship, train, etc.), the action carried out by Greenpeace, and the objective
which Greenpeace sought to attain.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  Greenpeace, environment, group, activist

2.  protest, disrupt, block, harass, scuttle, trespass, confront

3.  anti-nuclear, uranium, radioactive, missile


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  079


<dom> Domain:  International Relations


<title> Topic:  FRG Political Party Positions


<desc> Description:

Document will identify at least one German political party and report some
position which the party has taken in regard to a political, social, economic,
military, environmental, or international objective.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify at least one German political party or faction
and report some position which the party has taken in regard to a
political, social, economic, military, environmental, or international
objective.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will report at least one goal or objective of one of the
German political parties.  The position will be stated clearly enough that the
reader will be able to understand where the party stands on a specific issue.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  Social Democrats, SPD, Green Party, Christian Democratic Union, CDU, Reds,
    Green, Blacks, Christian Social Union

2.  oppose, support, demand

3.  proponents, advocates, allies

4.  swing, shift, aim, goal


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat>  Nationality:  Germany

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  080


<dom> Domain:  Political                          


<title> Topic:  1988 Presidential Candidates Platforms


<desc> Description:

Document will identify something about the platform of a 1988 presidential 
candidate.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify something about the platform of a 1988 presidential 
candidate.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify something about the platform of a 1988
presidential candidate: his campaign, plans, promises, philosophy, position on
an issue, issue(s) important to him, or how he would address an issue if
elected.  The platform of an individual candidate is of interest; the party
platform is not relevant.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  Bush, Dukakis, Gephardt, Dole, Haig, Simon, Robertson, Jackson, Kemp, 
Babbitt, DuPont, Gore, Hart, Biden

2.  platform, plans, idea, promise, position, stance, philosophy, posturing,
    campaign, issue

3.  presidential candidate, aspirant, contender, hopeful

4.  NOT Democratic party platform, NOT Republican party platform


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat>  Nationality:  U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  081


<dom> Domain:  Finance


<title> Topic: Financial crunch for televangelists in the wake of the PTL
scandal


<desc> Description:

Document will report a loss of revenue of a televangelist in the aftermath of
the PTL scandal, or a financial crisis triggered by the scandal.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report a loss of revenue of a televangelist in the aftermath of
the PTL scandal, or a financial crisis triggered by the scandal.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify a religious broadcaster, and report a
specific dollar amount or a percentage loss, indicating a decline in revenue
suffered by that broadcaster as a result of consumer reaction to the Jim
Bakker scandal.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1.  donations, confidence, checks, money, dollars

2.  plead, beg, cry

3.  down, fall, slip

4.  religious broadcasters, televangelists

5.  Bakker, Falwell, Robertson, Swaggart, Schuller, Roberts


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  082 


<dom> Domain:  Science and Technology


<title> Topic:  Genetic Engineering


<desc> Description:  

Document discusses a genetic engineering application, a product that has been,
is being, or will be developed by genetic manipulation, or attitudes toward
genetic engineering.


<smry> Summary:

Document discusses a genetic engineering application, a product that has been,
is being, or will be developed by genetic manipulation, or attitudes toward
genetic engineering.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss a product, e.g., drug, microorganism,
vaccine, animal, plant, agricultural product, developed by genetic engineering
techniques; identify an application, such as to clean up the environment or
human gene therapy for a specific problem; or, present human attitudes toward
genetic engineering.


<con> Concept(s):

1. genetic engineering, molecular manipulation

2. biotechnology
 
3. genetically engineered product: plant, animal, drug, microorganism,
   vaccine, agricultural product

4. cure a disease, clean up the environment, increase agricultural
   productivity
 

<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 083


<dom> Domain: Environment 


<title> Topic: Measures to Protect the Atmosphere


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss plans, projects, agreements, treaties, or laws concluded
or under consideration aimed at protecting the atmosphere.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss plans, projects, agreements, treaties, or laws concluded
or under consideration aimed at protecting the atmosphere.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss specific steps taken or under consideration
at the multilateral, bilateral, or national level to protect the atmosphere.
The plan, project, agreement, treaty, or law discussed in the document will
identify steps taken or to be taken under the measure and its purpose
(limiting chlorofluorocarbon emissions, reducing acid rain, containing carbon
dioxide buildup, or blocking deforestation) and not focus on scientific debate
or research into such atmospheric phenomena as ozone depletion and global
warming.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Greenhouse effect, global warming, carbon dioxide buildup

2.  Acid rain, smokestack emissions

3.  Deforestation

4.  Chlorofluorocarbons   


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 084


<dom> Domain: U.S. Economics 


<title> Topic: Alternative/renewable Energy Plant & Equipment Installation


<desc> Description:

Document will identify planned or under-construction alternative/renewable
energy plant or equipment installations.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify planned or under-construction alternative/renewable
energy plant or equipment installations.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify a specific alternative/renewable energy
plant or equipment installation planned or under-construction, to include the
technology employed, projected capacity or output, location, and specific
financial information, e.g. total cost, source of funding, estimated unit
production costs, etc.  Document will not focus on political discussions of
developing sources of alternate energy, nor will it focus on macroeconomic
discussions of national energy needs.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Alternative energy, renewable energy

2.  Cogeneration, hydro power, solar energy, windmills, geothermal, biomass


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality:  U.S.

<time> Time:  future

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 085


<dom> Domain:  Law and Government 


<title> Topic:  Official Corruption


<desc> Description:

Document will discuss allegations, or measures being taken against, corrupt
public officials of any governmental jurisdiction worldwide.


<smry> Summary:

Document will discuss allegations, or measures being taken against, corrupt
public officials of any governmental jurisdiction worldwide.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will discuss charges or actions being taken against
corrupt public officials (be they elected, appointed, or career civil servant)
anywhere in the world.  The allegations or charges must be specific, e.g.
bribes taken >from a named group or individual with a given objective, rather
than generalized allegations of endemic political corruption, or moves against
corporate or private malfeasance (unless linked to an official corruption
case).


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Official corruption, public corruption

2.  Bribery, prostitution, cover-up, undercover investigation,
    influence-peddling, illegal payment, collusion


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  086


<dom> Domain:  Finance


<title> Topic:  Bank Failures


<desc> Description:

Document will identify recent bank failures within the United States,
specifying name, location, assets, and federal or state authorities taking
action.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify recent closings by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation of a failed commercial bank chartered within the U.S.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document, in addition to giving specific identifying information on
a failed bank (or banks), must be clear that the bank was chartered within the
United State and that it is a bank, as opposed to another financial
institution such as a savings and loan or credit union, and must specify the
actions taken or being taken by the public authorities.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Bank failure

2.  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, FDIC, Comptroller of the Currency,
    state banking authorities, state bank regulators


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality:  U.S.

<time>  Time:  current

</fac>  


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 087


<dom> Domain: Law & Government 


<title> Topic: Criminal Actions Against Officers of Failed
               Financial Institutions


<desc> Description:

Document will report on current criminal actions against officers of a failed
U.S. financial institution.


<smry> Summary:

Document will report on current criminal actions against officers of a failed
U.S. banking institution (including all categories of banking).


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document will discuss a recently concluded or pending
criminal case being pursued by U.S. federal or state authorities against
officers of a failed financial institution.  Civil actions, such as creditor
claims filed for recovery of losses, are not relevant.  The failed institution
may have been insured by either federal or state funds and may belong to any
category of financial institution, e.g. bank, savings and loan, credit union,
etc.  Although not essential, it would be preferable if the document provided
such details on the case as specific crime, losses to insurance funds,
penalties imposed, etc.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  FDIC, bank, thrift, savings & loan, bank

2.  suit, trial, restitution, default, conspiracy, audit, fraud, felony


<fac> Factor(s):

<nat> Nationality:  U.S.

<time> Time:  current

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 088


<dom> Domain: International Economics 


<title> Topic: Crude Oil Price Trends


<desc> Description:

Document will provide quantitative data usable in charting international
crude oil price trends.


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide quantitative data usable in charting international
crude oil price trends.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, document must contain international crude oil production and
price data in at least two out of the three following categories: reported
daily output by any member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries (OPEC) or the larger non-OPEC producers (e.g. U.S., USSR, Mexico,
Norway, and Great Britain); the official production quota set by OPEC for any
of its members; and, prices in at least one of the so-called "benchmark" crude
oil markets (specifically, West Texas Intermediate, North Sea Brent, Rotterdam
crude oil spot market, and crude oil futures on the New York Mercantile
Exchange).  Documents referencing OPEC and its members likely will report or
speculate about political and diplomatic moves related to the "official" OPEC
price, but such information by itself is not directly relevant.  The best
documents would be those which summarize and statistically analyze crude oil
production and price data over a period of time, rather than those which
simply report daily market numbers.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, OPEC

2.  Algeria, Ecuador, Gabon, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait,
    Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates (UAE), 
    Venezuela.

3.  U.S., USSR, Mexico, Norway, Great Britain

3.  West Texas Intermediate, North Sea Brent, Rotterdam spot, New York
    Mercantile Exchange.


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 089


<dom> Domain: International Economics 


<title> Topic: "Downstream" Investments by OPEC Member States


<desc> Description: 

Document must identify an existing or pending investment by an OPEC member
state in any "downstream" operation.


<smry> Summary:

Document must identify an existing or pending investment by an OPEC member
state in any "downstream" operation.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must identify an existing or pending investment by
an OPEC member state (or its national oil company) in any "downstream"
installation or enterprise.  The investment may be through a joint venture,
acquisition, construction, or stock purchase of any operation in the refining,
petrochemical, oil industry equipment manufacture, drilling and exploration,
shipping, marketing and retail sales, or other ancillary "downstream"
activity.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  OPEC, Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

2.  Algeria, Ecuador, Gabon, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait,
    Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates (UAE), 
    Venezuela.

3.  Kuwait Petroleum Co., Kuwait Investment Co.

4.  Petroleos de Venezuela  


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

1.  "Downstream:" any petroleum industry activity which occurs after initial
    production of crude oil, or which supports such production.


</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 090


<dom> Domain: International Economics 


<title> Topic: Data on Proven Reserves of Oil & Natural Gas
               Producers


<desc> Description:

Document will provide totals or specific data on changes to the proven reserve
figures for any oil or natural gas producer.


<smry> Summary:

Document will provide totals or specific data on changes to the proven reserve
figures for any oil or natural gas producer.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must give specific data on totals, additions,
subtractions, recalculations, or adjustments to the official proven reserve
figures used by any national or corporate entity which produces oil or natural
gas.  The document should specify whether a change is due to such factors as
new investment in drilling activity or oil field installations, depletions or
losses, recalculations of existing figures, acquisition of other producers,
etc.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Proven reserve

2. Oil, natural gas


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

1.  Proven Reserve: although not always used with precision or industry-wide
    agreement on precise parameters, and thus subject to change or
    redefinition, a "proven reserve" can be distinguished from a probable or
    potential reserve as one which is ready for production near-term.  Oil or
    natural gas which can be economically extracted using installed equipment
    employing current technology is considered to be a proven reserve.

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 091


<dom> Domain: Military 


<title> Topic: U.S. Army Acquisition of Advanced Weapons Systems


<desc> Description:

Document will identify acquisition by the U.S. Army of specified advanced
weapons systems.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify acquisition by the U.S. Army of specified advanced
weapons systems.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, document will provide such specific information as contracts
concluded, payments made to contractors, or actual deliveries to the U.S. Army
of the following advanced weapons systems: Abrams Tank (M-1), Apache
Helicopter (AH-64), Patriot Missile, Blackhawk Helicopter, or Bradley Fighting
Vehicle.  Congressional discussions of such systems, DoD budget proposals,
RDT&E activities, overseas sales, component/spare parts/ancilliary
equipment/services acquisitions, and system modifications are not relevant.  In
other words, document must report actual or agreed-to deliveries to the U.S.
Army of core elements of their most modern weapons systems.


<con> Concept(s)

1. U.S. Army

2. Abrams Tank, M-1

3. Apache Helicopter, AH-64

4. Patriot Missile

5. Blackhawk Helicopter

6. Bradley Fighting Vehicle


<fac> Factor(s):

<time> Time: current and future

<nat> Nationality:  U.S.

</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 092


<dom> Domain: Military 


<title> Topic: International Military Equipment Sales


<desc> Description:

Document will identify a proposed or recently concluded sale of military
equipment in the international arms market.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify a proposed or recently concluded official sale
of military equipment between countries in the international arms
market.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, document will identify a proposed or recently concluded sale
of military equipment, to include weapons platforms, munitions, spares,
ancilliary equipment, technology, and services.  The equipment and quantities
must be identified, and recent should be defined as within the previous 12
months, but the price and conditions of sale are optional information.  Any
international sale, including transfers between NATO members or equipment
being provided under military aid programs, is relevant.  However, political
discussions of international military equipment sales, such as debate of the
Iran-Contra Affair, discussion of the UN embargo against South Africa, or
Congressional expressions of hostility against equipment sales to Arab states,
unless linked to a specific transaction, are not relevant.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  FMS, foreign military sales


<fac> Factor(s):

<time> Time: current
</fac>


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 093


<dom> Domain: Politics


<title> Topic: What Backing Does the National Rifle Association
               Have?


<desc> Description:

Document must describe or identify supporters of the National Rifle
Association (NRA), or its assets.

<smry> Summary:

Document must describe or identify members or supporters of the
National Rifle Association (NRA), or discuss its finances.

<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must describe or name individuals or organizations
who are members of the NRA, or who contribute money to it.  A document is also
relevant if it quantifies the NRA's financial assets or identifies any other
NRA holdings.

<con> Concept(s):

1. National Rifle Association, NRA

2. contributor, member, supporter

3. holdings, assets, finances


<fac> Factor(s): 

<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 094


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology


<title> Topic: Computer-aided Crime


<desc> Description:

Document must identify a crime perpetrated with the aid of a computer.


<smry> Summary:

Document must identify a criminal activity involving computers.


<narr> Narrative: 

To be relevant, a document must describe an illegal activity which was carried
out with the aid of a computer, either used as a planning tool, such as in
target research; or used in the conduct of the crime, such as by illegally
gaining access to someone else's computer files.  A document is NOT relevant
if it merely mentions the illegal spread of a computer virus or worm.
However, a document WOULD be relevant if the computer virus/worm were used in
conjunction with another crime, such as extortion.
  

<con> Concept(s):

1. crime, fraud

2. illegal access, corporate spying, extortion


<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 095


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology


<title> Topic: Computer-aided Crime Detection


<desc> Description:

Document must describe a computer application to crime solving.


<smry> Summary:

Document must describe an actual or theoretical computer application
used in crime solving.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must describe either an actual or a theoretical
computer application to detective work, by the police or by another law
enforcement organization.  A relevant document could include techniques such
as profiling criminals and their methods of operation, identifying finger
prints, spotting anomalies, etc.
 

<con> Concept(s):

1. police, detective, sleuth, enforcement agency

2. clue, records, fingerprints, methods


<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>


<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 096


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology


<title> Topic: Computer-Aided Medical Diagnosis


<desc> Description:

Document must describe computer programs, or computerized equipment, which aid
in medical diagnosis.


<smry> Summary:

Document must identify computer programs, or computerized equipment, which are
in operational use in medical diagnosis.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must describe actual computer software or hardware
which is in operational use for the purpose of diagnosing, or assisting in
diagnosing, patients' medical conditions.


<con> Concept(s):

1. diagnosis, scanning, testing

2. tomagraph, digital subtraction angiography, magnetic resonance scanners


<fac> Factor(s):

<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>


<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 097


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology


<title> Topic: Fiber Optics Applications
 

<desc> Description:

Document must identify instances of fiber optics technology actually in use.
 

<smry> Summary:

Document must identify instances of fiber optics technology actually in use
or contracted for.
 

<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must describe actual operational situations in
which fiber optics are being employed, or will be employed.  A document
describing future fiber optics use will be relevant only if contracts have
been signed concerning the future application.


<con> Concept(s):

1. fiber optic, light

2. telephone, LAN, television 


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

1. Fiber optics refers to technology in which information is passed via laser
   light transmitted through glass or plastic fibers.

</top>
 
<top>


<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 098


<dom> Domain: Science and Technology


<title> Topic: Fiber Optics Equipment Manufacturers


<desc> Description:

Document must identify individuals or organizations which produce fiber optics
equipment.


<smry> Summary:

Document must identify individuals or organizations which produce fiber optics
equipment or systems.


<narr> Narrative:

To be relevant, a document must identify by name either individuals or
companies which manufacture equipment or materials used in fiber optics
technology.


<con> Concept(s):

1. Fiber optics, lasers

2. cables, connectors, fibers


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

1. Fiber optics refers to the technology by which information is passed via
   laser light transmitted through glass or plastic fibers.

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number:  099 


<dom> Domain:  International Politics


<title> Topic:  Iran-Contra Affair


<desc> Description:

Document will identify a development in the Iran-Contra Affair.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify a development in the Iran-Contra Affair.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify a development in the unfolding saga termed
the Iran-Contra Affair.  A development consists of an agent and an action. Of
interest are at least piecemeal disclosures of who did what in order to be
able to come up with a description and chronology of events so that a
determination can be made of who was behind the scheme.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  Iran-Contra affair, controversy, scandal

2.  President Reagan, George Bush, Oliver North, John Poindexter, Richard
    Secord, Robert McFarlane, Albert Hakim, Manucher Ghorbanifar, Hashemi
    Rafsanjani, Alexander Haig, George Shultz, Caspar Weinberger, Don Regan,
    William Casey, Michael Ledeen, David Kimche, Fawn Hall, Edward de Garay,
    Robert Dutton, Adnan Khashoggi, Benjamin Weir, William Buckley, White
    House

3.  Iran, Nicaragua, Lebanon

4.  Tower Commission, John Tower, Tower report, Brent Scowcroft, Edmund Muskie

5.  independent counsel, Lawrence Walsh

6.  management style, hands-off management

7.  arms sales to Iran

8.  diversion of profits to Nicaraguan rebels, insurgents, Contras,   
arms-for-hostages, kickbacks, kickback scheme

9.  Swiss bank accounts, records

10. sharing U.S. intelligence secrets with Tehran

11. Israeli intermediaries, front companies
 
12. contributions to the Contras from Brunei, Saudi Arabia, Taiwan 


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

</top>
 
<top>

<head> Tipster Topic Description


<num> Number: 100


<dom> Domain: International Relations 


<title> Topic: Controlling the Transfer of High Technology


<desc> Description:

Document will identify efforts by the non-communist, industrialized states to
regulate the transfer of high-tech goods or "dual-use" technologies to
undesirable nations.


<smry> Summary:

Document will identify efforts by the non-communist, industrialized states to
regulate the transfer of high-tech goods or "dual-use" technologies to
undesirable nations.


<narr> Narrative:

A relevant document will identify activities of the U.S. Departments of
Commerce, Defense, and State to set policy or regulate exports of strategic
goods and technologies, or it will report on similar activities by allied
nations, or it will discuss technology transfer policy issues and
determinations under consideration by the Paris-based COCOM.  Unless
explicitly related to policy issues or establishment of regulations aimed at
controlling transfers of high technology goods and technologies, such events
as investigations of alleged violations of COCOM rules or arms shipments in
violation of embargoes are not relevant.


<con> Concept(s):

1.  technology transfer, export license, export controls, strategic goods, 
international trade security policy, high technology

2.  COCOM, Coordinating Committee on Multilateral Export Controls, 
    Japan, U.S., NATO

3.  Toshiba Machine, Kongsberg Vaapenfabrik, C. Itoh


<fac> Factor(s):


<def> Definition(s):

1.  "dual-use" technology: a technology usable in both non-military and
    military products

</top>

