<top>
<num> Number: 801

<title> Kudzu Pueraria lobata

<desc> Description:
Describe the origin, nature, extent of spread and means of controlling
kudzu.

<narr> Narrative:
Identification of kudzu as an invasive species with description of how
it spreads and grows is relevant.  A document which is simply a list
headed "invasive species" or "noxious weeds" including kudzu is not
relevant.  A statement that kudzu is present in a specific location is
not relevant unless it relates to its spread.  Features of kudzu such
as its use as a treatment for alcoholism or its function as a haven
for plant pathogens describe its nature and are relevant.

</top>


<top> 
<num> Number: 802

<title> Volcano eruptions global temperature

<desc> Description:
What is the impact of volcano eruptions on global temperature?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents discuss the scientific bases for volcanic
eruptions' causing warming or cooling, and may give examples of
volcanoes that did.  Documents which show photos or videos of volcanic
eruptions without tying the volcano to global temperature, or make the
connection only in a causal way are not relevant.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 803

<title> May Day

<desc> Description:
Give the history of this holiday and the various ways of celebrating 
May Day.

<narr> Narrative:
The document should have either a discussion of the history of this
holiday or a discussion of various ways of celebrating the holiday
(for example, a discussion of the Maypole).  A page which states that
Mayday is the International Worker's Day, or that Mayday is May 1, or
discusses some unrelated event that takes place around this time will
not be considered relevant (e.g. Louisiana Wetlands May Day).

</top>



<top>
<num> Number: 804

<title> ban on human cloning 

<desc> Description:
Describe resolutions proposed and legislation passed to ban the
cloning of humans and the rationale for the bans.

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents will describe the resolutions and legislation
enacted to ban human cloning. Also relevant are the rationales for the
bans.  Documents citing arguments for or against banning of human
cloning that are not in the context of a resolution or legislation are
not relevant. Documents containing references to a ban on human
cloning without additional information are not relevant.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 805

<title> Identity Theft Passport

<desc> Description:
Describe the Identify Theft Passport issued to identity theft victims to show
to creditors and law enforcement officers questioning their credit worthiness 
or innocence.

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents will describe the efforts to establish an Identity Theft
Passport, the uses of the Passport, and how it helps theft identify victims.
Documents with references to identity theft outside the context of the identity
theft passport are not relevant.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 806

<title> Doctors Without Borders

<desc> Description:
What is Doctors Without Borders/Medecins Sans Frontieres and what do
they do?

<narr> Narrative:
Documents must contain a reference to some fact about Doctors Without
Borders, for example, that it is a charitable organization or that it
brings relief to crisis areas.  A discussion of an event or operation
which assumes prior familiarization with DWB is not acceptable.  There
is no assumption that the requester knows that the name "Medecins Sans
Frontieres" is the same organization.  If the two terms appear
conjoined in such a way that it is clear they are synonymous, then any
further reference to MSF can be assessed for relevance to the
requested information.  The organization name on a list of
"humanitarian organizations" qualifies because at least the
terminology tells us that it is an organization and that it does do
humanitarian works.  The name listed solely under the heading "charity"
does not qualify.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 807

<title> Sugar tariff-rate quotas

<desc> Description:
Describe the nature and history of sugar tariff-rate quotas in the
United States.

<narr> Narrative:
Documents describing the system, its history and how it works are
relevant.  Proposed changes to the system or new agreements explaining
how it works are relevant.  Listings of current allocations are not
relevant.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 808

<title> North Korean Counterfeiting

<desc> Description:
What information is available on the involvement of the North Korean
Government in counterfeiting of US currency.

<narr> Narrative:
A document should provide information on the counterfeiting or the
distribution of counterfeit US currency by the North Korean
Government.  A page which provides evidence for, or quotes government
officials claims that this is happening will be considered relevant.
However, a page that simply states this, with no supporting evidence,
will not be considered relevant.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 809

<title> wetlands wastewater treatment 

<desc> Description:
Identify wastewater treatment projects that involve constructed or
natural wetlands.

<narr> Narrative:
Wetlands wastewater treatment projects purposely integrate wetlands to
act as final filters for wastewater.  The project must be named or
geographically located, more precisely than simply the state in which
it resides.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 810

<title> timeshare resales

<desc> Description:
Provide information regarding timeshare resales.

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents will include those describing the prospects of
reselling a timeshare and the pitfalls one should be aware of when
selling a timeshare.  Real estate legislature regarding the resale of
timeshares is not relevant.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 811

<title> handwriting recognition

<desc> Description:
What is the state of recognizing handwritten inputs to computers?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents describe the methodology in carrying out
handwriting recognition.  Patent descriptions may be relevant if they
describe the methodology used in recognizing handwritten input, such
as pen-driven analysis to identify individual characters.  Also
relevant are documents which discuss techniques which are not
character based.  Relevant also is discussion of any databases being
collected to study the problem of handwriting recognition as a means
to inputting handwriting documents into a computer in digitized form.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 812

<title> total knee replacement surgery

<desc> Description:
What conditions lead doctors to recommend total knee replacement
surgery and what complications can result from such surgery?

<narr> Narrative:
Documents simply describing the surgery are not relevant.  Documents
concerning court cases in which doctors testify as to the need for
total knee replacement or claimants charge complications from such
surgery are relevant.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 813

<title> Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway

<desc> Description:
What is the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents describe the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway in any
of the States on the Atlantic seaboard.  Relevant documents may discuss
the extent to which the AIWW is used for economic and/or recreational
purposes.  They also may discuss the extent to which the AIWW is being
maintained by federal and State governments.  Documents reporting
draw bridge schedules and waterway closures in emergency events such
as hurricanes are not relevant.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 814

<title> Johnstown flood

<desc> Description:
Provide information about the Johnstown Flood in Johnstown,
Pennsylvania.

<narr> Narrative:
Documents must include any factual information about the Johnstown
Flood, such as number of lives lost, high water statistics, route,
towns affected, causes, etc.  Tourist information sites are acceptable
if they provide historical facts.  Blurbs about library books are
acceptable provided they contain some fact(s) about the flood and are
not listed as fictional accounts.  Information about the year alone
(for example, "The Johnstown Flood of 1889") is not enough.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 815

<title> Coast Guard rescues

<desc> Description:
Find accounts of actual Coast Guard rescues.

<narr> Narrative:
Detailed descriptions of rescues are relevant, as well as headlines,
article titles or picture captions if they give sufficient detail to
know what happened.  Rescues involving deaths of the rescuees are
relevant.  Medical evacuations are relevant.  Simulated rescues are
NOT relevant.  Searches without rescues are NOT relevant.  Mere
statistics on numbers of rescues are NOT relevant.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 816

<title> USAID assistance to Galapagos

<desc> Description:
Describe efforts made by USAID to protect the biodiversity in the
Galapagos Islands in Ecuador.

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents will include activities undertaken by USAID as well
as USAID planned activities.  Activities undertaken and funded by
USAID as well as activities undertaken by USAID and funded by another
organization are relevant.  Documents that reference USAID assistance
to the Galapagos but provide no additional information are not
relevant.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 817

<title> sports stadium naming rights

<desc> Description:
How are naming rights to sports stadiums acquired?

<narr> Narrative:
Documents stating how naming rights to any sports stadium were
acquired are relevant.  Text of any plans, laws or agreements stating
how naming rights are to be acquired are also relevant.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 818

<title> Chaco Culture National Park

<desc> Description:
What is known about the culture and history of the Chaco people from
features of the Chaco Culture National Historic Park?

<narr> Narrative:
Documents containing description and explanation of the major
archaeological findings in the park are relevant.  Vague references to
"wanderers" and "ruins" without specifics about the people's culture
or type of ruins are not relevant.  Photographs of artifacts
identified simply as "Chaco" or "Chaco Anasazi" with no other
elaboration are not relevant.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 819

<title> 1890 Census

<desc> Description:
What is known about the 1890 U.S. Census?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents include information from the 1890 U.S. Census,
including generalized data like population totals for any locales, as
well as any information about the conduct of the census
itself. Relevant documents also may include information about the
present status of the original documents of the 1890 U.S. Census.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 820

<title> imported fire ants

<desc> Description:
What are imported fire ants, and how can they be controlled?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents describe what imported fire ants are and where they
came from. Relevant documents describe the impact of imported fire
ants on the inhabitants and economy of the areas they infest. Relevant
documents discuss possible methods of controlling imported fire ants,
as well as the effectiveness of such methods.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 821

<title> Internet work-at-home scams

<desc> Description:
Describe the work-at-home scams that are promoted over the Internet.

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents will include those that describe work-at-home scams
and the extent of the scam problem.  Documents that describe what is
being done to identify and punish the fraud promoters of work-at-home
scams are not relevant.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 822

<title> Custer's Last Stand

<desc> Description:
Give the history of the Battle of the Little Big Horn, June 25 and 26,
1876, also referred to as Custer's Last Stand.

<narr> Narrative:
The documentation should contain information about the events leading
up to the battle, discussion of the actual battle, including Reno's
and Benteen's battalions, or discussion of the events immediately
after the battle, including the escape of Sitting Bull to Canada, or
the evacuation of Reno's wounded to Bismark.  Pages discussing the
monument, the burial or reburial of Custer's troops, or the battle of
Washita are not relevant.  Also, documents which just give the date of
the battle, just give one simple fact about the battle (e.g. number
killed), or are a biography of Custer which only touches on the battle
are not relevant.

</top>

 


<top>
<num> Number: 823

<title> Continuing care retirement communities

<desc> Description:
What features and services are provided by continuing care retirement
communities (CCRC's)?

<narr> Narrative:
Documents describing facilities and services provided by CCRC's are
relevant.  Documents concerning licensing and requirements for
operating a CCRC are not relevant.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 824

<title> Civil Air Patrol

<desc> Description:
What is the current role of the Civil Air Patrol and what training do
participants receive?

<narr> Narrative:
Civil Air Patrol (CAP) mission statements are relevant.  CAP
involvement in emergency services, communications, and aerospace
education is relevant.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 825

<title> National Guard Involvement in Iraq

<desc> Description:
Describe the deployment of National Guard units to Iraq.

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents will include those describing the deployment of
specific National Guard units to Iraq.  Documents describing the role
of the National Guard in Iraq in general terms, such as "playing a
vital role," and describing the deployment of National Guard troops to
Iraq in general are not relevant.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 826

<title> Florida Seminole Indians

<desc> Description:
What is the relationship between the U.S. and the Seminole Indians of
Florida?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents describe the history of the Seminole Indian tribes
which are now now located in Florida, and their interaction with the
United States.  Relevant documents also describe the current
relationship between the U.S. and those tribes.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 827

<title> Hidden Markov Modeling HMM

<desc> Description:
Give a definition of and/or a description of an application for 
the Hidden Markov Modeling algorithm.

<narr> Narrative:
The documentation should either have a definition or explanation of
Hidden Markov Models, or have a detailed description of an application
of Hidden Markov Models to a specific problem.  A discussion of the
Baum-Welch algorithm, and how it relates to HMM would be acceptable.
However, a document with only a statement of the form, "this software
package is based on a generalized HMM.", or a title of a document
(even if the title gives an application), or nothing more than a state
transition diagram will not be considered relevant.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 828

<title> secret shoppers

<desc> Description:
What companies or organizations use secret or mystery shoppers?

<narr> Narrative:
"Secret shoppers" or "mystery shoppers" are people who pose as
customers and report on the service they received. The same function
under a different name is relevant. A relevant document must clearly
identify the user/employer of the secret shopper.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 829

<title> Spanish Civil War support

<desc> Description:
Provide information on all kinds of material international support
provided to either side in the Spanish Civil War.

<narr> Narrative:
Given that the requester knows the terminology for the various Spanish
factions on each side in the Spanish Civil War, provide information on
international support for either side, in the form of anything
concrete, e.g. arms, aircraft, money, medicine, volunteers (such as
fighters or medical personnel), etc.  The recipient of such aid (i.e.,
which Spanish faction) should be specified.  Library blurbs are
acceptable as long as they mention a foreign involvement and the side
taken.  Verbal expressions of support from foreign leaders are not
acceptable.  Artistic support does not count - unless the artist
actually went to Spain!

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 830

<title> model railroads

<desc> Description:
Locate past or present model railroad layouts.

<narr> Narrative:
Model trains in any scale and in any country are relevant.  A simple
exhibit of miniature train cars is not relevant; a layout with track
for the trains to run on must be present.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 831

<title> Dulles Airport security

<desc> Description:
Describe the security measures at Dulles International Airport in
Virginia.

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents contain information on security measures at Dulles
International Airport in Virginia and the problems with security
measures that have been taken.  Documents that pose questions about
Dulles airport security without providing answers are not relevant.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 832

<title> labor union activity

<desc> Description:
What activity involving U.S. labor unions has taken place since 1980?

<narr> Narrative:
Labor union membership figures are relevant.  Strikes, recruiting,
lobbying, negotiating, and support for members are all relevant.
Actions taken concerning unions are relevant.  Union manuals or
theoretical descriptions of procedures are not relevant.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 833

<title> Iceland government

<desc> Description:
Provide information about the government of Iceland.

<narr> Narrative:
Provide any information about the form of national government in
Iceland.  This may include any reference to the type or composition of
the government or its historical development.  Documents containing
information on local governments alone are not acceptable.  References
to the activities, action, or position of the government (to include
any ministries or governmental agencies) on any given topic are not
adequate.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 834

<title> Global positioning system earthquakes

<desc> Description:
How is the global positioning system (GPS) used for research and
monitoring of earthquakes?

<narr> Narrative:
All documents referring to earthquake monitoring or research making
use of a global positioning system are relevant.  Documents referring
to such monitoring and/or research without specific mention of the
role of GPS are not relevant.

</top>



<top>
<num> Number: 835

<title> Big Dig pork

<desc> Description:
Why is Boston's Central Artery project, also known as "The Big Dig",
characterized as "pork"?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents discuss the Big Dig project, Boston's Central
Artery Highway project, as being a big rip-off to American taxpayers
or refer to the project as "pork".  Not relevant are documents which
report fraudulent acts by individual contractors.  Also not relevant
are reports of cost-overruns on their own.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 836

<title> illegal immigrant wages

<desc> Description:
What level of wages are paid to illegal immigrants?

<narr> Narrative:
The simple statement that illegals depress wages is not relevant.
"Sub minimum wage" is relevant because it implies less than the
legally established minimum wage.  A dollar amount per hour, day,
week, month, or year is an ideal answer.  A percent comparison of
wages paid to documented workers is relevant.  Wage levels of illegal
immigrants in any country are relevant.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 837

<title> Eskimo History

<desc> Description:
Provide information on the pre-1500 history of the Eskimo (Inuit)
people.
 
<narr> Narrative:
The document should have information on the history and culture of the
Inuit people, previous to 1500.  Pages discussing when and from where
they migrated to North America are acceptable.  Pages discussing the
Inuit people outside of North America are acceptable, as are pages
about the distribution of the Inuit people when first contacted by
Europeans (as this reflects the distribution 300 years earlier).
However, a statement that some aspect of Inuit culture dates dates
back more than 4,000 years, does not by itself make a page relevant.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 838

<title> urban suburban coyotes

<desc> Description:
How have humans responded and how should they respond to the
appearance of coyotes in urban and suburban areas?

<narr> Narrative:
Documents reporting the appearance of coyotes in urban and suburban
areas are relevant as are those describing human reactions or
prescribing how to deal with the situation.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 839

<title> textile dyeing techniques

<desc> Description:
Explain various techniques used in dyeing textiles and identify their
advantages or disadvantages.

<narr> Narrative:
Abstracts describing techniques are relevant.  Processes directly
related to dyeing (for example, pre-treatment of material to be dyed,
wastewater treatment) are relevant.  Lists of techniques without
explanation are not relevant.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 840

<title> Geysers

<desc> Description:
Give the definition, locations, or characteristics of geysers.

<narr> Narrative:
The document should contain what makes a geyser a geyser, where
geysers are found, or the names, location, and characteristics of a
specific geyser.  A page discussing man made geysers, just photos of
geysers, geysers on other planets, or list of geysers even if
associated with a particular basin will not be considered relevant.

</top>



<top>
<num> Number: 841

<title> camel North America

<desc> Description:
Provide information on camels in North America in both prehistoric and
modern times.

<narr> Narrative:
Documents may include mention and/or photos of fossils, bones,
etc.  Documents with photos alone, as long as they are labeled, are
relevant.  A casual mention of a camel presence in Late Miocene
trackways is not relevant.  Modern-day importation and use of camels
such as that by the US military/cavalry for western desert transport
is acceptable.  Non-relevant documents include ones which are limited
to discussions of camel-hair (imported vice domestic, with regard to
NAFTA) or camel pox.  Documents containing laws governing the
importation of camels into the US are not relevant unless they also
contain reference to specific camels being brought in.  Articles
referring to camels in the entertainment field such as zoos or cinema
are acceptable.  Fictional camels such as Joe Camel are not acceptable.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 842

<title> David McCullough

<desc> Description:
Give information about David McCullough, author, his life, works,
and/or awards.

<narr> Narrative:
The documentation should provide some information about David
McCullough, the author of "Harry S. Truman".  Pages on some other
David McCullough (even if an author) will not be considered relevant.
A quote from one of his books, or a complete citation of one of his
books, including publisher will be considered relevant.  However, the
observation that someone talked with historian and writer David
McCullough about history does not make the page relevant.

</top>



<top>
<num> Number: 843

<title> Pol Pot

<desc> Description:
Who was Pol Pot and what did he do?

<narr> Narrative:
Documents must include the role of Pol Pot.  It should be indicated
that he was the leader of the Khmer Rouge, a Cambodian leader,
responsible for mass killings, etc.  Any discussion of the Khmer Rouge
that alludes only to the "Pol Pot regime" or the "days of Pol Pot" is
not acceptable.  Bibliographies or library listings are not
acceptable.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 844

<title> segmental duplications

<desc> Description:
Give information about segmental duplications in genomes.

<narr> Narrative:
The documentation should either give an explanation of what is a
segmental duplication, how much of the human genome is involved in
segmental duplications, or what are some of the consequences of
(diseases caused by or desirable effects of) miscopying a segmental
duplication.  Pages which contain the title of a document with this
term, or the term with no indication of its meaning will not be
considered relevant.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 845

<title> New Jersey tomato

<desc> Description:
Provide information about tomato farming and production in New Jersey.

<narr> Narrative:
Any discussion of New Jersey tomato production, volume, percentage of
US tomato production, percentage of farmland devoted to tomatoes,
etc., is relevant.  Articles about specific tomato farms are relevant
as long as the farms are significant for something such as size or
production method or volume.  Agriculture Department rulings or
guidelines are acceptable as long as they specifically include the NJ
tomato crop.  If NJ is included with other states in production
figures the article is relevant even if the NJ share of the production
volume is indeterminate.  (For example, "New Jersey, Maryland, and
California together produce 75% of the world's tomatoes.")  Price
tables alone are not relevant.  A picture of a NJ tomato or tomato
farm is not relevant unless there is some associated significant data.
Bibliographies are not acceptable.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 846

<title> heredity and obesity

<desc> Description:
Describe evidence that heredity does or does not play a role in obesity.

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents will include those that provide evidence for or
against the position that heredity plays a role in obesity.  Documents
citing planned research regarding a link between obesity and heredity
are not relevant.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 847

<title> Portugal World War II

<desc> Description:
What was the role of Portugal in World War II?

<narr> Narrative:
Give evidence of the role or importance of Portugal on either side (or
not at all) in World War II.  Documents can include any reference to
gold being stored by or for Portugal, use of Portuguese ports as
escape routes from Nazi Europe, Portuguese provision of arms materials
to Axis countries, any reference to Portuguese status as a neutral
nation, etc.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 848

<title> radio station call letters

<desc> Description:
Identify radio stations by their call letters and location or ownership.

<narr> Narrative:
Call letters must be present for a document to be relevant.  Either
geographic location or personal or organizational ownership is
relevant.  Stations no longer in existence are relevant.  Explanations
of call letter allocation systems are not relevant unless they include
actual stations with identifying information.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 849

<title> Scalable Vector Graphics

<desc> Description:
What is "scalable vector graphics"?

<narr> Narrative:
Relevant documents describe the concept "scalable vector graphics",
what it is used for, and what special advantages the technique has,
especially with respect to portability and zooming features.
Documents which merely mention the term in a list of, e.g., system
requirements are not relevant.

</top>


<top>
<num> Number: 850

<title> Mississippi River flood

<desc> Description:
How frequently does the Mississippi River flood its banks? 

<narr> Narrative:
Flooding is a relative term which implies water overflowing its
container and causing damage to the surrounding ares.  Documents are
relevant if they describe Mississippi River events which are commonly
considered to be floods.  Relevant documents may also show how such
events have led to the introduction of controls to lessen the
frequency of damaging floods of this river.  Relevant documents
include different levels of flooding, not only the major ones.
Documents are not relevant if they are essentially forecasts or
routine reports of water levels.  They are also not relevant if they
are purely bibliographies or lists of sources for relevant documents.
Photos and videos of floods alone are not relevant.

</top>
